THE LORD WITH THE INNKEEPER MUCIUS 


[GGJ.u_ooi,oi] ...for there is only life in the truth, and therefore, to search for 
the truth is the only blissful activity that warms the heart of man and will more 
and more awaken the divine spirit that lives in him, while in laziness, in the lie 
and the unwillingness to search for the divine truth there is not only physical 
death but it is especially the cause that the soul will more and more be lost in 
material things. By that he will not only cause an early physical death but he will 
also make himself incapable to progress in the life in the beyond and search for 
his only salvation there. 
[GGJ.n_00i,02] If man would be left in his old superstition and be withheld 
from every better understanding, with the only purpose to let the servants of the 
old faith have a pleasant life as you think, then the deity, who wants to prevent 
such decline of life’s activity at all cost, will soon let the people come under the 
pressure of all kinds of plagues, so that they will wake up, come to personal 
understanding and will in this way gradually free them from the pressure and 
blindness that their so-called teachers brought upon them. But how those 
teachers will fare then, you can easily measure yourself. There will not be much 
love, for he who strews selfishness and lies will also not reap anything else but 
what will come out of such evil seed. 
[GGJ.ii_ooi,03] So you do bitter injustice to the people of Jerusalem if you 
believe that you are better off by keeping them within your old, meaningless 
regulations instead of urging them to listen to the words of that Galilean and to 
take an example on His deeds of love which are known now throughout Syria. 
However, your limitless pride and selfishness prevent you from recognizing Him 
who came to you already a long time ago in the fullness of His whole divinity, 
which I also did not recognize but who clearly revealed Himself to me now.” 
[GGJ.n_ooi,04] The Pharisee was so surprised about these words of the 
innkeeper that he could not reply one word of objection, and with a few 
meaningless words he went back to his men who were standing at the door and 
carefully listened to the conversation. 
[GGJ.n_00i,05] 16] But the innkeeper came to Me and said with real loving, 
gentle good-heartedness: “Lord and Master, forgive me that I did not recognize 
You immediately because of my great blindness. But during the conversation with 
that Pharisee, everything became more and more clear to me who the One 
actually is who I accommodate in my ordinary house. You Yourself are that 
Galilean about whom the Pharisee talked about. But You are much more than 
only a great prophet, for I had the feeling that my heart was attracted to You more 
and more. Moreover, I constantly had Your image before my eyes although I was 
standing with my back towards You and it was like I was not the one who spoke 
but as if You spoke out of me. O, please tell me, dear Lord and Master, was it truly 
so?” 
[GGJ.n_ooi,o6] I answered the innkeeper: “Yes, it was indeed so. Not you, but I 
spoke through you, and I could do that very easily because a great flame of love 
burns in your heart for Me, which also attracted Me to your house. 
[GGJ.n_00i,07] And so it will always be: I will only move in where the heart is 
burning out of love for Me, and I will then also take residence in that heart as in a 
house that is most pleasing to Me. 
[GGJ.n_ooi,o8] You always wanted to hear about the deeds of the Galilean, and 
you soon discovered that behind those deeds there is more than only the miracle 
power of a prophet or great man. So you sincerely wished that I would take up 
accommodation with you in order to see for yourself what kind of person I 
actually am. By that you always attached more importance to what I taught than 
to My miracles, for its truth became soon very clear to you. And see, in this way 
you were really prepared for My coming and it was easy to work with you because 
once I entered your house, the spirit was moving at once and revealed you clearly 
what will still remain an eternally long hidden secret for many Jews here. 
[GGJ.n_00i,09] But let us rest now, for I do not want those Pharisees and 
businessmen, who were very surprised about your words, to come to us tonight 
and start a conversation. We will have enough trouble with them tomorrow. So let 
us delay everything till tomorrow.” 
[GGJ.n_ooi,io] After these words of Mine, the innkeeper thanked Me once 
again with a loud voice for all the good deeds that were shown. But I admonished 
him and said that his hidden thanks in his heart were much more pleasing to Me. 
Then he silenced and brought us to another room, so that we would not be 
troubled by the Pharisees and businessmen who already started a loud 
conversation. So we spend the night there completely undisturbed. 
Chapter 2 
THE INTENTIONS OF THE PHARISEES 
[GGJ.n_002,0i When we woke up the next morning, the innkeeper told us that 
the newly arrived guests - as they were unsatisfied because they did not receive a 
direct answer from us on the question who we are - tried to question the servants 
of the house to know from where we came and who we actually are. Especially the 
3 Pharisees acted quite demanding because they were used to see everyone die 
from awe for them. But the chief helper of the house, also a Roman whose name 
was Marcius and who was a former soldier-companion of our innkeeper, firmly 
rejected their nosy questions in a true Roman manner so that they were very 
offended, retreated and decided to really complain about this rude helper to his 
lord. 
[GGJ.11_002,02] We took our morning meal in the hall where we had slept and 
could thus precisely hear what was discussed in the next room where we first 
stayed yesterday evening. Our innkeeper went himself to the three to know what 
they wanted, and one of them took the opportunity to really let out his suppressed 
vexation. 
[GGJ.n_002,03] The innkeeper calmly listened to their complaint and said 
then without any anger in his words: “Of what you say, the only thing that is valid 
is that my Marcius urged you in a somewhat too harsh manner to stay calm since 
you, as you well know, are not the only guests in my house. My house is a 
lodgment for everyone and I cannot make a special exception on the rules of the 
house for citizens of Jerusalem or even for members of the High Council, because 
this house is truly Roman, and everyone who wants its protection must thus 
comply with the rules, otherwise he is free to look for another inn. But you 
fervently discussed till late at night without worrying whether the nightly rest of 
other people might be disturbed, and you finally called my personnel, who really 
need their nightly rest, questioning them so that Marcius firmly rebuked you for 
this violation. This could have been done more politely, but I cannot blame him 
that it happened.” 


[GGJ.n_002,04] The speaker of yesterday spoke again (the Pharisee): “I 
surely did experience that you are a special friend of your guests of yesterday, but 
I think that we also are worth something and may desire to be treated politely as 
it befits between men of our reputation and standing. But no matter how - for I 
noticed yesterday how you are disposed towards us so that we probably will not 
receive justice from you - tell us who was actually that rather big company that 
was in this hall yesterday and who is their spokesman with whom you were 
talking?” 
[GGJ.ii_002,05] The innkeeper answered: “I am not entitled to reveal you 
that.If you want to know, ask Him yourself. He is still in my house with His whole 
company and He will certainly answer your questions.” 
[GGJ.n_oo2,o6] “That is precisely what I want to avoid”, said the Pharisee, 
“for I noticed that He seemed to completely share your not very respectful words 
that you stated about the Jewish people and its teachers. At least He did not 
contradict you in any way but He rather repeatedly agreed with you as we 
concluded from a few remarks that we were able to pick up. Nevertheless, we had 
the feeling that a treasure of hidden wisdom lighted up from His words which 
brings us to the question who and what He is, whether He would know that 
famous Galilean Himself, if He has seen Him or if He is even a disciple of Him. 
[GGJ.n_002,07] We know very well that this so-called Messiah, who is nothing 
more than a carpenter’s boy from Nazareth, often sent out disciples who then, as 
they say, performed also miracles. And now with these our friends - who are 
businessmen and want to travel to Petra via Jericho - we went to gather some 
information ourselves about how far that rubbish has progressed with the people 
to set them up against us and the temple. For the High Council in Jerusalem will 
certainly not allow to let its reputation be harmed any longer by someone who 
wants His arts of magic make look like the works of God’s Spirit and pretends to 
be a son of the Highest, as incredibly enough happened already repeatedly. 
[GGJ.ii_oo2,o8 ] I say this to you, my dear innkeeper, so that you would not 
choose His side so much and make you jointly responsible for the activities of that 
agitator of the people which would also bear very bad fruits for you, because the 
Council and the court of justice of the temple still have the right and power 
enough to conquer its adversaries. So if by coincidence you would know where 
that Galilean is, or if you, via that guest who seems very wise to us, can know that, 
you would do us a great service and you can also be completely sure that we will 
in no way blame you for your bold and insulting behavior of yesterday, neither of 
your helper.” 
[GGJ.ii_ 002,09] After this long speech of the Pharisee, our innkeeper, who had 
recognized Me in his heart for a long time, wanted to grab those three. 
[GGJ.n_oo2,io] But I rebuked him inside so that he held his peace, and very 
calmly he said: “Yes, if you seriously can prove to me that this Galilean is an 
agitator of the people, possibly against the government of Rome, then things are 
quite different and you can be assured that I will do everything to make such 
wicked enemy of Rome harmless. But I have the impression that it is actually 
different, and so we still should seriously talk about this matter.” 
[GGJ.ii_002,ii] Now the Pharisee became more confidential, asked the 
innkeeper to sit next to him - a real honor according to him - and he began now 
from beginning till end to relate all the known and already often quoted pharisaic 
cleverness: that I did not respect the Scripture, wanted to overthrow Moses and 
the Old Covenant, in short, wanted to impose Myself as king of the Jews in order 
to destroy the rule of the Romans. 
[GGJ.il_002,12] The innkeeper heard everything very calmly and then said that 
he wanted to take advice from his wise guest and that he then would come back. 
The Pharisees, as well as the businessmen, among whom there was also one that 
was present as money changer during the temple cleansing, were very satisfied 
about this apparent change of mood of the innkeeper and they let him go with 
merciful expressions on their face. 
Chapter 3 
MAN AS RULER OVER NATURE 
The innkeeper, whose name was Mucius, came immediately with glowing inner 
fury into our hall which was separated from the next room with a strong door so 
that we had not to be afraid of being taken by surprise, and he said, shaking from 
anger: “Lord and Master, this is just another clear proof that I was right when 
yesterday I called the Jerusalemites, and especially the temple servants, worse 
than the dirtiest pigs, for they cunningly try to draw me into the nets of the 
temple. I would have preferred to jump on them and let them taste the sharpness 
of my sword which is by far not rusted yet in its shaft, but then I felt Your calming 
word in my heart to which I listened I was even able to show a calm, indifferent 
face.” 
[GGJ.n_003,02] I answered the excited Mucius: “You did very well, because the 
opposite would have destroyed a work for Me and for you for which sake I came 
here. So calm down, my dear Mucius, for it is very good the way it is. 


[GGJ.n_003,03] But let us go outside now. Here next to your house you have a 
beautiful garden which is not too small. We will be less disturbed than here and 
can deliberate how we can best deal with these people who irritate you so much.” 


[GGJ.n_003,04] When they all went into the garden, they were surprised how 
exceptionally tasteful it was laid out. Mucius knew how to plant with great care on 
a proportionally little piece of ground an abundance of all kinds of flowers and 
ornamental bushes that were picturesquely divided and gave the garden a very 
lovely view. The disciples praised our innkeeper exuberantly for that and were of 
the opinion that this garden was a true image of his inner being which also 
received great care of him as this was already obvious from his words. 


[GGJ.n_003,05] Mucius explained to them that it always gave him much joy to 
spend quiet hours of meditation here and that his often too fierce and therefore 
hot-tempered mood always found rest and peace so that the pressure of life 
seemed to be less painful after he strengthened his mood by the view of the many 
wonders of nature and plants that are shown here. The climate in this region near 
the Jordan is very beneficial so that it often reminded him of the southern regions 
of Africa and Asia, for as a soldier he also had the opportunity to know these. 
Nevertheless, he always had the impression that there was something special 
regarding the blooming and growing of his little garden, for it never happened to 
him that a tree, bush or shrub had died while it happened to his neighbors, and 
everything that he planted and cared for bore the most abundant fruit. Also My 
disciples were surprised about that, and Peter asked Me for the reason. 


[GGJ.n_oo3,o6] On this I answered: “What man thinks, what he strives for and 
what he does, and his inner spiritual condition, are always in harmony with his 
outer environment so that immediate interactions will result from it. You know, 
as I told you already before, that every human being is surrounded by an outer 
sphere of life by which he sucks up spiritual influences from the air that 
surrounds him and which he uses for the nutrition and extension of the I of his 
soul. 


[GGJ.ii_003,07] So in turn he also beams out spiritualized particles which are 
then eagerly sucked up by the surrounding lower world. If a person is good, filled 
with a noble striving and love for Me, then those particles that flow out will have a 
good, mild and beneficial influence. If he is not, then the opposite is the case. 


[GGJ.n_oo3,o8] Here you can see now what kind of beneficial influence the 
outflowing sphere of life of Mucius has on all plants. Since he planted every plant 
in the ground himself and also takes constantly care of them, he repeatedly 
surrounds all plants in his sphere and they eagerly took the opportunity to suck 
up those beneficent influences. That is why everything is still blooming and 
growing here while in other gardens the late autumn is already strongly visible. 


[GGJ.ii_ 003,09] Man is a ruler over nature when he lives according to My Word 
and strives towards My Spirit, and in this capability which I explained to you, lies 
also the key by which he can be a ruler, for everything in the whole universe 
strives towards its form, to its completion, and tries as much as possible to come 
closer to it. 


[GGJ.n_oo3,io] Therefore, in man lies the power to draw all creatures to him. 
And they also like to follow him because the urge for completion that is already 
present in all beings inspires them to this desire. Of course, only a perfected 
human being is able to conquer for instance the instincts of devouring animals in 
such a way that the wish for completion, which lies in their deepest inner being, 
will rule over their often cruel impulses and obey like lambs as they recognize the 
dominion, that means the already perfected form and spiritual power, in man. 


[GGJ.ii_003,ii] Every striving man will notice how he gradually will become a 
little lord over nature, and the more the rebirth of the spirit will take place in him, 
he finally will grow to become a ruler over nature. 


[GGJ.n_003,i2] So continue, Mucius, to serve the highest God in your heart, 
then very different wonders will open up for you than these which you came to 
see in your garden up to now.” 



Chapter 4 
THE PHARISEES MEET THE LORD 


With almost tears in his eyes the innkeeper said to Me: “Lord and Master, I 
already clearly felt in my heart that You and that Galilean whom the Pharisees - 
who are now in my house - want to persecute, are one and the same person. But 
what my heart suspected is to me now also completely sure, namely that You are 
no other than the personified highest God Himself, because doing such miracles 
and explaining very clearly how the nature is set up can only be done by someone 
who completely penetrated in it and who became a supreme ruler over it. The one 
who can create bread out of nothing and wine out of water can also call with one 
word Heaven and all its stars into existence, as Moses described for the Jews of 
his time. So I thank You with all my heart, Lord of Heaven and Earth that You 
considered me worthy to visit me and my house which has always fervently 
searched You and has now also found You in all its fullness.” 


[GGJ.n_004,02] I said to My disciples: “Now you can see again how fast the 
gentiles recognize and accept Me among them while the chosen ones reject Me 
and try to capture and kill Me. This Roman has found Me only in his heart while 
in other places I had to perform miracle after miracle to change the tough hearts 
into a useful soil to let grow the seed of My word. That is why the Kingdom of 
Heaven will be taken away from the Jews and be given in all its fullness to the 
gentiles, for they will better know how to keep it than the Jews and Pharisees who 
became very dark now. 


[GGJ.n_004,03] But you, My Mucius, will still be a mighty instrument for Me 
here in the South, a fortification against the wickedness of the Pharisees and 
scribes which will give Me great services, for it is necessary to establish strong 
places that are impregnable. And such strong place, which carries the treasure of 
My Word in itself, will be for Me your heart and the hearts of your family. 


[GGJ.n_004,04] Send now the Pharisees and the businessmen to Me, and while 
I will try to at least lead them on somewhat better paths, let yourself be instructed 
in the depths of My teaching by My disciple John, so that you will completely 
come to know it.” 


[GGJ.ii_ 004,05] The innkeeper Mucius went now first to the Pharisees and 
businessmen and brought the message to them that they were invited to see Me to 
let their request be known and that he could not give them a more satisfying 
answer. 




[GGJ.ii_oo4,o 6] Whether they liked it or not, if they did not want to show that 
they did not take seriously what was said, the 3 Levites had to go to the garden to 
see Me. Only the one businessman that I already indicated as being one of the 
temple money changers joined them because the others pretended to be 
concerned about their merchandise that could not stand or lay without 
supervision and went then to their sacks to prepare for a quick departure. 


[GGJ.ii_ 004,07] Soon the 3 Pharisees and the businessman met us in the 
garden, followed by Mucius who went immediately to John for an earnest 
discussion with him about Me and My teaching. 


[GGJ.n_oo4,o8] The speaker of yesterday came to Me because Mucius had 
already pointed Me out and said in a real kind but nevertheless haughty tone to 
Me: “Dear friend, we as members of the High Council in Jerusalem ask You 
politely for some information which You will certainly be willing to give, 
assuming that You can give it, which we however suspect. 


[GGJ.n_004,09] We noticed from the wise words which we heard yesterday 
from the next room - without actually wanting it - that You are very familiar with 
the Scripture and ethnology, otherwise You could not have given such profound 
explanations that were even for us completely unknown, although we are quite 
familiar with the history of our own and neighboring country. You certainly must 
have made faraway trips and examined things which also could be of great 
interest to us and hear from You on some occasion. 


[GGJ.n_oo4,io] But it is very important to us now to know something more 
about that Galilean about whom the innkeeper had repeatedly discussed with You 
and with us, because we were send out to gather information about His activities. 
For it is very well possible that You met Him on one of Your trips and that You 
can tell us more about Him, and we want to ask You to do that if You can.” 


[GGJ.ii_004,ii] I answered: “What you ask from Me, I easily could do, since 
indeed I know that Galilean very well. But the thing is: I have to know what I have 
to tell you about Him. To hear good things about Him will sound unpleasant in 
your ears, for you went out to gather accusations against Him in order to destroy 
Him. And if I have to speak according to the truth, there will be no one to witness 
that He has ever done something wrong, and it are only such reports that you 
would like to hear. So what do you want Me to do?” 

Chapter 5 

THE LORD CONDEMNS THE CUNNINGNESS OF THE PHARISEES 


Somewhat embarrassed the Pharisee said: “Master, I see that it will be difficult 
to talk with You, but I still ask You to fulfill my request and, since You now 
admitted that You know that Galilean, to tell us by what means He performs His 
miracles or if they are just plain deceit and arts from the Essenes. We also are 
friends of the truth and search it with great zeal. That is why we were sent out 
because the High Council surely knows that they cannot so easily make us believe 
a false miracle and take it for a real miracle and be deceived as easily as the dumb 
people. So be so kind to answer our questions and rest assured that we will fully 
believe You.” 


[GGJ.n_005,02] I answered: “Why asking Me while you do not know Me? Are 
there not many eyewitnesses in Israel who can testily to you - and have also 
already done that - that the deeds of that Galilean are real and are not done with 
the help of Satan? You know these witnesses very well and you still do not believe 
them. Then why should you believe Me?” 


[GGJ.n_005,03] The Pharisee said: “We heard Your wise words, Master, and 
have noticed that You cannot be that blind as there are many of those we know 
and who also told us about the deeds of that Jesus from Nazareth. We know them 
as being very credulous and we can therefore not yet accept a testimony from 
them. But it is quite different with a man like You who proves by His words that 
He saw many things and must have acquired a great knowledge of the world. And 
now we also repeat our request: be so kind to tell us unconcealed Your opinion 
about that Galilean. 


[GGJ.n_005,04] We traveled via Jericho only to examine His miracles on the 
spot, for they say that He made a blind man seeing and spent a long time there. 
But we must confess that all that many praising of the beggars among the people 
did not convince us at all to believe that supernatural things happened, for there 
are very wise and skilful doctors, especially among the Greeks, who were also 
often able to heal sick people whom no one else could ever hope to heal. Then 
why could it also not have happened there like with those sicknesses that seem 
really very difficult but were nevertheless healed by the Greek doctors? 


[GGJ.ii_ 005,05] They told us that the Galilean is most likely to be found in the 
Jordan Valley because it would be His intention to move more to that region in 
the winter. At least that is what we heard through the mediation of a resident of 
Lazarus’ house in Bethany. That is why we traveled from Jericho to this place to 
search in this region. Now You know exactly what our intention is, dear Master, 
and You certainly will not be so reserved anymore to answer our questions.” 


[GGJ.n_005,06] I said: “O not at all, and be sure that you will be completely 
served according to the good order. But it really strikes Me that you only went out 
to examine His miracles and not His Word. I know that this Galilean repeatedly 
said that miracles are not very useful because there is no or little proof for those 
who were not present - as this is now also very clearly shown by you - and that 
the truth and the practice of His Word are only important to Him, as well as His 
teaching that solely possesses the power to convince by the spiritual power that it 
contains. Then why do you not examine that and why are you not concerned 
about that? Give Me answer to this.” 


[GGJ.ii_ 005,07] On this the Pharisee said with a pitiful smile: “We have 
Moses and the prophets, the Kabalai and the Torah2. What other teachings do we 
need since those books contain everything and wherein all the wisdom of God was 
placed? The teaching of the Galilean, which was told to us many times, is often so 
confused, unclear and insane that experienced scribes like us can really not 
engage in it because it is directly opposed to the teaching of Moses. 


[GGJ.n_005,08] So the question is at most whether His miracles are real, for if 
we can be convinced of that, it will be a pleasure to then recognize those miracles, 
especially because, in service of the temple, great good deeds for the Jewish 
people can result from that.” 


[GGJ.n_005,09] While I was sharply looking at the speaker, I said: “You fools, 
do you perhaps think that it would not be easy for that Galilean to destroy the 
temple and all its servants? How can you think that your cunningness is capable 
to make Him serve you? But now your mask really fell off, and for the sake of 
those who are present here I wanted the intentions of the temple to be clearly 
revealed. For you do not care about the true life, about the teaching to become 
blissful - for you think that it is the greatest foolishness to believe in a 
blissfulness after death - but solely for much power, prestige and, if it works, to 
learn magic with the intention to keep the people in fear and fright to let them 
serve you - if not out of love and respect, then only out of fear. In order to attain 
that goal, that Galilean seems to be the right man for you. You know that the 
people are attached to Him. Whether His miracles are real or not is the same to 
you, as long as they can serve your selfish purposes, then it is all right. For in any 
case, it seems a good idea to you to fill your pockets even faster than before. And 
it also does not seem difficult for you to copy the arts of that Jesus from Nazareth 
so that you will eliminate Him when He later will become troublesome to you. 
l Kabala: Interpretation of the Torah. 2 Torah: Hebrew word, meaning ‘teaching’ 
or ‘law’. 


[GGJ.ii_oo5,io] So these are the thoughts of the High Council which you have to 
execute on their command, and that is why you went out to search that Galilean 
and win Him for your purposes. 


[GGJ.ii_005,ii] But truly, I say to you: you will sooner succeed to put the sun out 
of its orbit than to reach your wicked purposes, for in that Galilean lives a higher 
command to which He obeys, and this command that prevails in Him comes from 
that God whom you worship with the lips in Jerusalem but never more with the 
heart. So if you possess even a bit of discernment you will realize that He only can 
be concerned about the Spirit that drives Him to do justice - no matter from 
where His greatness, power and might may come - but not about your selfish 
plans that only lusts for admiration and false prophesying. 


[GGJ.n_005,i2] Your limitless blindness that makes you hard and unfit to enter 
the Kingdom of God will later bring you to ruin. The mercy of God goes that far to 
look upon all your horrible sins with indulgence in the hope that you finally will 
still convert and repent, for even if a sinner who is already in the midst of Hell 
and would call his God and Lord for help will receive redemption and help. But 
you will cause the judgment for yourselves, and truly, it has already come very 
close. But then do not say: ‘Lord, You are a hard God and have inflicted these 
wounds to us because of our many sins. You turned away Your holy face from us 
and now there is wailing and gnashing of teeth among us’, but attribute that evil 
time to yourself and do not call it a judgment from God but only a just result of 
your hardness and spiritual laziness which makes you blind with seeing eyes and 
deaf with hearing ears.” 


Chapter 6 

THE BLINDNESS OF THE PHARISEES 


Being very surprised the Pharisee said: “Master, who are You that you speak so 
mightily and can break the staff above us?” 


[GGJ.n_oo6,02] I said: “Did I not tell you that you become blind with seeing 
eyes and deaf with hearing ears because of your hardness. Purify yourself of all 
the filth of the temple, so that you will hear and see. I know very well that you and 
your two companions are the last who still are half ways of a better nature. 


[GGJ.n_oo6,03] You three went out and you zealously performed your task, for 
you wanted to know the actual truth of all the stories about the Galilean, but 
despite that, you went out as someone who hears about a big treasure that is 
buried in the desert and thinks: ‘I will try to search for it, maybe I will find that 
treasure.’ And so he leaves without much hope, but only to try it. If he finds the 
treasure, all the better, if he does not find it, he will not be worried about it. 


[GGJ.n_oo6,04] However, I say to you: the Kingdom of Heaven is not a treasure 
that can be searched for carelessly, but the treasure should be searched in the 
desert of life through fervent struggle and striving and with great zeal, and it can 
happen to the one who does not do that, that someone after him will search and 
dig on the same spot with much more zeal and find the treasure which the first 
one did not find on the same spot. 


[GGJ.n_oo6,05] You went out now, so search diligently and not carelessly, so 
that may find for what you went out.” 


[GGJ.n_oo6,o6] The second Pharisee, who meanwhile looked at Me ever 
more attentively, said: “Master, this sounds as if we are standing at the border of 
the Kingdom of Heaven and cannot find that treasure. Would You not give us a 
little indication as to how we actually have to search to attain to that treasure?” 


[GGJ.ii_oo6,07] I said: “I already told you: follow only My words.” 


[GGJ.n_oo6,o8] Then I went to My disciples who were very surprised that these 
3 were so terribly blind and deaf and could not understand the clear things that I 
spoke to them. 


[GGJ.n_oo6,09] And I said to them: “You are completely in My light, and 
therefore it is easy for you to see. But they are in darkness and cannot see - as 
they say - a hand before their eyes. We will also not succeed to make them 
entirely seeing, because what could be made entirely seeing is already withdrawn 
from the temple. But these here can and must be prepared to at least form a little 
obstacle against the evilness of the other temple servants. That is why they will 
also not recognize Me but they will still take Me for only an important disciple of 
the Galilean, and we will also leave it that way. After My ascension they will 
become completely converted.” 
[GGJ.ii_oo6,io] Nota bene: It will be striking to many that here and also before 
that, I directly spoke to My disciples about My coming ascension. The remark 
should be made here that they never took this literally as long as it did not really 
happen, but they thought that I would leave Palestine when My time as teacher 
would be over and go to Greece or Rome to continue My work there. Also My 
words that the Kingdom of Heaven would be given to the gentiles were mostly 
understood that way. I left them in that belief for that moment but nevertheless 
prepared them for something great in the future by repeatedly pointing to it, so 
that the coming events would rectify all false ideas by itself. 


[GGJ.n_oo6,n] Also now I still teach in this manner all those who follow Me 
and who are full of faith, so that not a dead faith by authority would take root but 
a living faith and would be adjusted by the pure reason of the heart and guided in 
the right manner. 


Chapter 7. 

THE BUSINESSMAN SEARCHES FOR THE LORD 


Now we quietly waited to see with what the 3 Pharisees would come up as they 
were deliberating with the businessman and could not really figure out who I was. 
Meanwhile Mucius was instructed in short wordings by John and they both came 
to us. Mucius wanted to thank Me but I drew his attention to the 4 who stood 
aside, upon which he understood Me and kept silent. 


[GGJ.n_007,02] They came to us again, and now the businessman was the 
speaker and said: “Master, from Your words I clearly concluded that You must 
know that Galilean very well, especially because You pointed out His great power 
which nothing can resist. I did not see Him myself but I personally really felt His 
power and I mightily warned these friends of mine to avoid bringing down the 
wrath of the Galilean on them because according to me they would then be 
hopelessly lost. But by those warnings they only became more eager to know that 
Man of wonders and if possible to test His power.” 


[GGJ.ii_ 007,03] The innkeeper asked the businessman to which events he was 
referring to. 
[GGJ.ii_ 007,04] At once the businessman related: “Next Easter it will be 3 
years that I was able to put down a small stall in the temple to practice my activity 
as money changer which especially during the time of Easter yielded a 
considerable profit because of the many offerings. One day I heard that the 
famous Galilean was in Jerusalem and had entered the temple to teach. I wanted 
to come nearer to Him to have a closer look at the Man of wonders, who at that 
time had newly arisen, when suddenly a mighty voice roared through the building 
of the temple of which I still remember the words: ‘The house of My Father is a 
house of prayer but you turned it into a murderous pit’. I was terribly frightened 
by it. On the spot where the Galilean had to stand there was an enormous 
confusion, and on all - on me also - fell suddenly such terrible fear that all the 
people together rushed to the exits. 


[GGJ.n_007,05] I did not dare to enter my money-changing stall again out of 
fear that this powerful Man would perhaps repeat the same game, and by that 
sudden flight I also lost a considerable amount of money that was certainly 
beneficial to the temple, and that is why I know by experience what kind of power 
that Galilean has.” 


[GGJ.n_007,06] Then Peter asked him: “Did you then later never see that 
Galilean?” 


[GGJ.n_007,07] The businessman answered: “Never, because on the one 
hand a great fear for Him held me back, and on the other hand I did not have the 
time for that. I had to try to make up for the money that I lost in the temple and 
traveled immediately to the coast cities where I did business with very good oil 
that is exported to Greece and Rome, and then also with many other products of 
this country, and recently I live again in Jerusalem. Now from Petra I am looking 
for new connections to bring the products from India and Arabia to the coast 
cities and to export them from there to Rome. This is the goal of my present trip. 


[GGJ.n_007,08] So up to now I did not have the opportunity to undertake 
something, although I would have liked to see that Jesus from Nazareth. Many 
criticized Him for being a hard, rejecting man whose teaching is precisely like 
Him. Others mention His mildness, wisdom and incomprehensible power with 
which He performs the greatest wonders. On my trips I had many opportunities 
to convince myself that His power is no imagination but that it is really present. 
Despite all that, it always unfortunately happened that my business kept me away 
from meeting Him.” 

[GGJ.ii_ 007,09] I said to the businessman: “Where worldly reason goes hand in 
hand with the pursuing of riches united with personal interest, the soft voice that 
calls to man: ‘Search for the truth’ must of course be silenced. A little detour on 
your trips from Jerusalem to Jaffa, Tyrus and Sidon would not have given you any 
disadvantage, so that you very easily could have met the Man who could have 
shown and given you to personally possess imperishable riches which you will not 
ever be able to gather. 


[GGJ.n_oo7,io] He who will not search will also not find, the one who will not 
knock, for him will also not be opened. He who believes that the spiritual 
knowledge of that which is good and true must search for him so that it would 
automatically fall to him on his regular worldly ways, can wait eternally to receive 
it. The one who, out of indolence and because of worldly businesses, avoids to 
make even a little detour to search for the source of the truth, although he already 
heard about it, belongs to the worldly people to whom the Lord will say at the end 
of times: ‘You heard about Me and did not search Me. Now I do not search you, 
although I know that you are there. Go away from Me and go to where your love 
draws you.’ 


[GGJ.ii_007,ii] While deeply reflecting on this, the businessman said: “Lord 
and Master, I see that I did injustice. See, how long will I still live? I am now some 
50 years old and feel that my soul is withered because what they teach in 
Jerusalem I do not believe. I know how much deceit prevails there, and my life is 
coming to an end without giving me satisfaction. I often inquired for the teaching 
of the Galilean and discovered great pearls of humanly love. Would it then still be 
possible to find through Him the satisfying way to the knowledge of what is really 
good? Can You tell me, o Lord and Master, where I can find Him? This time I will 
not regret a detour, no matter how long, to get acquainted with Him.” 


[GGJ.n_007,i2] I said to him: “If you are that hungry you will be satisfied. 
Maybe you will receive what you wish. But then what about your companions? Do 
you also wish to meet the Galilean personally?” 


13] The Pharisee who spoke with Me up to then said: “If this can happen 
without causing too much sensation, we would like that. We would present to 
Him the propositions of the temple and examine His miracles, and then we will 
see further.” 


[GGJ.n_007,i4] The Pharisee spoke these words to us with a certain haughtiness 
because he was irritated that the businessman spoke about deceit of the temple 
and he wanted to make clear to us that he considered the conversation as finished 
since he could not receive any information from us anyway. 


[GGJ.n_007,i5] Therefore I answered him: “Friend, why does this businessman 
irritate you while he spoke the truth? It would be better for you to examine 
yourself to see whether your soul is also not withered and could still be made 
fertile. But if you want to know where the Galilean did His last great miracle, 
travel beyond the Nebo to the city of Aphek where He transformed the region into 
fertile land, which was up to then completely barren, as the inhabitants will 
thoroughly relate to you three. Examine well whether that miracle was real and 
whether basically there is no deceit, and be attentive then to what your hearts will 
whisper to you. Report to Jerusalem of what you have heard and seen, or keep it 
to yourselves, completely as you will feel it. 


[GGJ.n_007,i6] If you come back with a purified heart it is also possible that the 
Galilean will let Himself be found by you, for it always happens that only those 
can find that Master of life to whom He reveals Himself. The others will remain 
blind, even when they are already with Him.” 


[GGJ.n_007,i7] The Pharisee said mockingly: “Being with Him without 
recognizing Him will certainly be impossible for us. We have very clear eyes in 
our head. But we nevertheless thank You for Your advice, for now we know where 
we can search and then also find Him.” 


[GGJ.n_007,i8] Then they said goodbye and went back into the house with the 
businessman who still looked at Me very attentively. I gave Mucius now the 
instruction to follow them and not to hinder their possible departure but to let 
them decide completely freely themselves. So Mucius went after them, and we 
stayed now for a while undisturbed alone in the garden. 


Chapter 8 

THE LORD RELATES ABOUT THE LIFE’S STORY OF THE 
BUSINESSMAN 


Now I taught My disciples that they received a good example here, showing to 
what a worldly attitude and lust for power will lead, and how necessary it is to be 
always on one’s guard and not to believe to already have assimilated every 
knowledge and light in oneself as those 3 Pharisees were thinking. They could be 
considered real scientists because they wanted to examine everything with their 
critical reason and only wanted to believe what they saw, but by that they fell 
from one doubt into another because after they were looking, they doubted again 
whether they looked well, and they finally did not trust their own actions and 
words. Furthermore, their striving, although serious, was nevertheless wrong 
because it was only directed to the outer and not to the inner, and only that 
formed the consumable kernel, as with a nut on which one can really break his 
teeth on the purely outer form. That is why it was still by far not possible to make 
Myself known to them. 


[GGJ.n_oo8,02] Performing a miracle here would have been useless because 
they only would have believed that they did not understand the manner by which 
it was accomplished and would have rejected the inner kernel since they adhered 
too much to the Greek sciences which they secretly practiced. Only in Aphek, a 
region they knew well from before, they really would be surprised and begin to 
understand that here stops what is natural according to their understanding, and 
after that, they will zealously investigate and slowly be freed from their sciences 
that will greatly abandon them. 


[GGJ.n_oo8,03] Then also for them a light will arise regarding who I was, 
especially when they will hear that I came along this way, and then they will 
receive more understanding from themselves. Of course, a long time will still pass 
before they will come to complete insight because they will quickly be sent out 
again by Jerusalem so that in this way their souls can be purified in peacefulness 
and meditation, and that the strewed seed would not suffocate in the mud there. 


[GGJ.n_oo8,04] We still talked about several things of the temple and its 
servants as well as about the destiny of the temple when Mucius came back with 
the businessman and told us that the Pharisees and their men left to the East and 
that also the other businessmen loaded their pack animals and camels and had 
left, but this businessman let them go and decided to further discuss with Me. 


[GGJ.n_oo8,05] I went to him and said kindly: “Phoikas, what is it actually that 
kept you here?” 


[GGJ.n_oo8,o6] Being completely perplexed the businessman said: “Lord, 
how do you know this name which I only carried in my youth? I am a Greek from 
birth and was named Phoikas, but when I early in life became an orphan a 
merciful Jew from Tyrus adopted me and later he even accepted me as his son 
because he stayed without children. I became a Jew, received also the 
circumcision and was called Agamelom. Since tens of years the name Phoikas did 
not sound in my ears and I even almost forgot it - and now You call me so.” 
[GG.J.ii_o08,07] I said: “Do not be surprised about that, for I still know a lot 
more than only a simple name that your parents gave you in your earliest years. I 
also very well know your whole youth which you first spent in Athens and later 
alone with your father in Tyrus. But your father died from a severe cold which 
deteriorated in a dangerous fever when he returned completely wet from a boat 
trip and which he undertook to store stranded goods. And so you became an 
orphan because your mother already died in Athens. The Jew that adopted you 
was a business friend of your father. He traded with Jerusalem and his name was 
Maliesar. Tell Me, is this so or not?” 


[GGJ.n_oo8,o8] Being more and more surprised the businessman said: “Yes, 
so it is precisely, and I am all the more surprised about it because those events 
happened already 30 and more years ago, so at a time that You apparently could 
not have been born yet. From where do You know these things, because the group 
of people that can know something about my father and that adoptive father died 
already a long time ago?” 


[GGJ.n_oo8,09] I said: “I already told you that I still know a lot more things. 
But do not worry about that for the moment, for all these things will become clear 
to you. But let us now partake of a good midday meal so that our body will be 
strengthened, and after the meal you will receive a right explanation.” 


[GGJ.n_oo8,io] Now we went into the house and partook of the midday meal 
which Mucius ordered to prepare for us. 


Chapter 9 

THREE IMPORTANT QUESTIONS OF MUCIUS AND THE LORD 
ANSWERS HIS QUESTIONS 


When the meal was finished, the innkeeper Mucius said to Me: “Lord and 
Master, I am really eager to ask a few questions now that are clearly on my heart 
because of our conversation of yesterday. There are no more Pharisees present 
who listen to us so that question and answer can unhindered be asked and given. 
So if You permit, O Lord, I would like to request from You to answer my 
questions.” 


[GGJ.n_009,02] I said: “Just ask and let the presence of Phoikas not hinder you, 
for he also will now be guided into the Kingdom of True Life as reward for the fact 
that he put his worldly business aside and followed his heart although he only 
kind of suspected it and felt that the wind of the pure spirit of truth blows here. 


[GGJ.n_009,03] I say to you Phoikas, you rejoiced My heart by that, and by that 
you went on a way that leads to eternal salvation. 


[GGJ.n_009,04] Now ask frankly, My dear Mucius, so that you will receive a 
right answer.” 


[GGJ.ii_009,05] Mucius said: “Since You, o Lord and Master, allowed me, I ask 
You for a right explanation, why we men actually live, what will happen to us after 
death and how we can be better initiated in all wisdom of life. 


[GGJ.n_009,06] You told me yesterday that by keeping Your two 
commandments which Your disciple explained to me in more detail, the right 
knowledge will awaken in the heart of man by itself, but the ‘how’ remained for 
me still very veiled, and therefore I ask You for a true light about this.” 


[GGJ.n_009,07] I said to the innkeeper: “My dear Mucius, exactly in those three 
questions that you ask are contained the whole wisdom of all the Heavens and the 
reasons of My work as teacher on this Earth. No matter how many times I talked 
about this, the basic teaching cannot be frequently repeated enough so that the 
spiritual heart of man will completely absorb those eternal truths in himself, will 
well digest them in himself and in flesh and blood will entirely transform them. 
Therefore, I will profoundly answer your questions, firstly for the sake of you and 
Phoikas since you are still foreign to My teaching, and secondly for the sake of My 
followers who are already with Me for a long time but who still did not penetrate 
into all truth. So listen carefully. 


[GGJ.n_oo9,o8] Man lives from two kinds of worlds which he has to unite in 
himself. On the one hand he is the cornerstone of the outer, material creation in 
which he is called the crown of creation and he is praised as such. On the other 
hand he is the starting point of the pure spiritual world which with him has 
reached the first stage of complete free self-awareness. So, on the one hand he is 
the beginning and on the other hand the end of a chain, and he has to find in 
himself, by his for that purpose given life and the free development, the right link 
with which he can make those 2 chains as one. I will explain this further to you. 


[GGJ.n_009,09] All beings, from the smallest creature, form step to step 
ascending series, in such manner that one step will always complete the other, 
will show greater perfections and can by that also develop an ever greater 
intelligence. 


[GGJ.n_oo9,io] Look at the animals where lower sorts exist that seem to have 
no other goal than to maintain their body and serve as food for other animals. 
When there is an enemy of their body and life, they stoically surrender to their 
fate and do not fight back and are also not capable to do that. Look at the many 
insects and lower amphibians. 


[GGJ.ii_009,ii] However, further up you can see that the intelligence is already 
so highly developed that those animals are more conscious of the dangers that 
threaten their bodies, and also know how to escape from them through all kinds 
of cunning tricks. 


[GGJ.n_009,i2] With animals that are more advanced you can see that this 
quality is further developed, and so they are provided with suitable weapons like 
sharp claws and teeth to get rid of their enemies, but at the same time they 
become also enemies of other animals. Now there is a struggle from both sides 
where cunningness and cleverness are practiced, to kill the bodies but also for the 
progression of the intellect so that the character, that gradually develops and that 
acquires specific qualities for the ever ascending animals, can be formed. 


[GGJ.n_009,i3] Now a borderline is reached from which the animals are 
inclined to join man, and then you call them domestic animals. They usually are 
more submissive or more tame as you say. They can develop a very far-reaching 
intelligence and can be trained. By that they look in a certain way more like man 
- not in their outer form but for what concerns certain characteristics. You often 
can observe real astonishing actions of animals that show reasoning and also a 
certain discernment so that you are amazed and say: the animal lacks only the 
power of speech. Look, these are animals that in their spiritual development only 
need to make a step to become a human being, like an infant who has also only to 
make a certain step in years in order to become a person with reason. But with 
the animal that goal cannot be attained because the form of the soul is not 
perfected yet while with a child, who often seems much dumber and clumsier, the 
form of the soul is present and capable for a further development, like in every 
grain of seed in which lays the image of the future plant. 


CNI 


Chapter 10 

THE DEVELOPMENT OF THE FORM OF THE SOUL UP TO MAN 
All these sorts of animals, which are multiple in order to make possible an 
optimal variety in character abilities, are however under a fixed law which takes 
care that they can develop themselves in that one certain direction, namely the 
one of the highest possible intelligence. This means: they are not capable to act 
differently than the limits of the form of their soul will permit. For instance, no 
matter how clearly you will indicate to a bird that it still would be better not to 
build an open nest but perhaps a braided house, it will nevertheless stay with its 
nest. And you can be sure that since the existence of the different species on Earth 
every species built their home exactly as they still do today. This is in a certain 
way because of a limited horizon (the form of the soul) that cannot be extended. It 
is just like a child who cannot learn the difficult higher arithmetic as long as it 
still does not understand the initial basics. 


[GGJ.n_0i0,02] The different forms that the animals must go through 
correspond to the time periods or years of development of man. When the highest 
animal intelligence is developed - mind you, this is not concerning the outer form 
but only concerning the development of the soul - then those developed 
intelligences can flow together to become a human soul. So this contains now in 
the first place the highest developed intelligences that mutually complement each 
other, and then, since it is the next step in the development of many lower lives, it 
(the soul) must be a reflection of the total lower life in general, because it contains 
all this in itself. So it is now completed for what concerns the outer form and the 
inner form that is capable for development. The crown of creation, the human 
form, with a germ that is capable for the highest possible development, is reached 
in the newly born human being. 


[GGJ.n_oio,03] Now begins the second task: man must reach the highest 
possible free awareness in the knowledge of his Creator and in the development 
of the inner man. 


[GGJ.n_oio,04] Up to now the form of the soul was dull, did not care about 
spiritual things but only about material things. Only the right of the strongest was 
important to him. But the deity wants His work that was led here with difficulty 
will now also begin to know Him and will try to come closer to Him out of love, 
and not out of fear for His power. How can this be achieved? 


[GGJ.n_oio,05] The deity must veil Itself to reach that goal. That means that He 
must put His creature in circumstances that gives him the possibility to recognize 
the deity freely from himself or not. By that, the deity may not use any coercion, 
for otherwise fear, which has to be avoided, and not love will influence the 
direction of the will. Just think how you would feel to be surrounded by servants 
who would only serve you out of fear instead of out of love. That little plant of love 
can only come into existence when the human soul receives proof - by the ever 
increasing clearness and insight of things - of the great love and wisdom which 
the deity gives him and which stirs up admiration and love in him. 


[GGJ.ii_oio,o6] A leader is now given to the human soul, because the pure soul 
alone, which cannot be further developed as perfected form, would not notice 
anything higher than itself if a spiritual feeling could not flow in, the awareness of 
a power in it, which humbles him down and urges it to seek its Creator. And this 
is the divine spark which is laid in it as spirit and which has to develop together 
with it, has to penetrate in it more and more through a right education and must 
lead it into all knowledge through self-teaching. 


[GGJ.n_oio,07] This true marriage, which starts already when man is born, is 
however greatly disturbed because, although the soul is developed by the 
inevitable physical development, the inner spirit stays mostly only like an embryo 
in him. The purpose of life is however to let them develop together at the same 
time so that the one depends in the right measure on the other. 


[GGJ.n_oio,o8] That divine spark comes from God and contains initially all the 
truth and the right knowledge. By that spark, man stands in very close connection 
with the initial Spirit of God Himself and he can penetrate in all secrets and the 
wisdom of God Himself. But very few people are aware of this. And to lighten up 
this awareness - which only weakly flashes by - to full certainty and to 
knowledge, is the goal of My work as Teacher. And the way that leads to it is given 
by My teaching. 


Chapter 11 

THE INNER AWAKENING AND THE CONTINUATION OF LIFE 
AFTER DEATH 


MY disciple John told you already, and I confirm this to you, that in the two 
commandments: ‘Love God above all and your fellowman like yourself are 
contained the 10 commandments of Moses and all the rest about what man 
should do to awaken the spiritual spark that abides in him and to unite more and 
more with his soul. For it is only in the right way of living according to God and in 
the right deeds of love for your fellowman that you will find true satisfaction, 
inner peace and the right victory over your passions and death. The one in whom 
the conviction is awakened, which makes it impossible for him to sin against 
those commandments, will already discover true Heaven on this Earth, for he 
became untouchable for all the attacks of evil, became by that a real ruler in him, 
and out of him a ruler over nature. 


[GGJ.ii_oii, 02] For since the soul of man contains everything from all the 
beings that the Earth carries, as you know, it is very natural - once the spirit will 
rule in his house which contains everything - that he also must be able to rule 
over the various images of his I. Just like a king who worked himself up from the 
rank of slave to the throne will rule without resistance over all these ranks to 
which he belonged. But it is obvious that this is only when man has found the 
binding link of the chain, which is My teaching, and has connected both chains to 
only one unbreakable chain. He is completely powerless as the last link of the 
material chain, which is only the highest form of the soul, forming by that some 
human form, and is actually nothing but a very intelligent, well developed animal. 


[GGJ.ii_oii, 03] I think that you understand now why you live, and how you can 
come to the right understanding.” 


[GGJ.ii_oii, 04] Being amazed and listening attentively, they all said: “Yes Lord 
and Master.” 


[GGJ.ii_oii, 05] And I continued: “Now there is still the third question to be 
answered, namely: What happens to man after death? 


[GGJ.n_on,o6] If it is as I told you, it is also obvious that the spiritual man, who 
develops himself only imperfectly in the earthly life because his heavy body is a 
big burden to him, must continue to live, for nobody will claim in himself that he 
can reach a perfection in this short earthly life that can bring him already very 
close to God. He has to deal with various obstacles in his body and with 
temptations of all kinds, so that his character will be hardened and his will be 
trained to do violence to himself and to attract more and more what is good and 
remove the bad tendencies out of himself. 


[GGJ.ii_oii, 07] Once in the beyond he will come into a new world which will 
ever more reveal to him the wonders of God and the universe where he will be 
able to see with his spiritual eye and not with his weak physical eyes that only 
show him the material world. While looking at the great works of wonders he now 
understands that the real bliss can only be found in the activity, and that God 
Himself is the most active Being. According to his progress, a suitable working 
sphere can be given to him that he zealously takes at heart. And in this activity 
and at the sight of his useful work he will experience true joy and the highest 
bliss. 


[GGJ.ii_oii,o8] What these activities are I will show you by a clear example. For 
this reason I want a few blissful spirits to come here to show you their activities.” 


[GGJ.ii_oii, 09] I hardly had spoken out these words when next to every one of 
them suddenly appeared a friendly citizen of the beyond who kindly greeted those 
who were present. My disciples were not too surprised about that, for they 
gradually got used to such appearances, but our innkeeper and Phoikas, who out 
of amazement were not capable to say anything, all the more. 


[GGJ.n_on,io] But I immediately strengthened them, and when Phoikas had 
composed himself, he said to Me: “Lord and Master, if after Your great, very wise 
explanation there was still any doubt left, I really know now for sure with whom I 
am dealing. No one else but You Yourself are that miracle-working Galilean after 
who hundred, yes thousand times more is hidden than the most blessed 90 
prophet. For to speak like that and being a ruler over the legions of the beyond 
there can be only One, and that is the initial Spirit Himself who took residence in 
You and who made Himself bodily visible for men. Therefore, hail to You, and to 
all men to whom You reveal Yourself.” 


[GGJ.n_on,ii] I said: “My dear Phoikas, what you say is true and nice, but I 
prefer, if you really recognized Me, that you thank Me inside your heart instead of 
in too loud words, for I perceive the hearts as easy as all the rest and do not 
regard gratitude expressed in words. 


[GGJ.ii_on,i2] Now be attentive to what those completely blessed citizens will 
show to each one of you separately, so that you will see of what consists the 
happiness of a spirit in the beyond.” 


[GGJ.ii_oii, 13] Then there was a kind of contemplating rest that fell on each one 
of them by which they sat motionless in their chairs. 


Chapter 12 

THE INNER EXPERIENCE OF PHOIKAS ^ 
AFTER some time they regained consciousness again and were greatly amazed, 
and they related on both sides to where their respective guides, who had now 
disappeared after they woke up, had taken them and about all the things that 
were shown by them. 


[GGJ.n_oi2,2] Now I asked Phoikas to tell about it, and at once he began as 
follows: “Lord and Master, what I saw was wonder upon wonder and completely 
different than how men imagine the life in the beyond. 


[GGJ.n_0i2,03] The angel that You appointed to me, led me into his sphere 
which is a complete world in itself over which he himself is also the ruler and 
rules completely like a little king. I was taken by him in my soul without having 
the feeling whatsoever that I was missing my body, for my heavy body could 
certainly not have undertaken such trip. I know therefore also for sure that the 
body is only a heavy and often very clumsy garment that is given to the soul as 
protection so that he can develop himself in it in the right manner. However, it 
(the body) does not stand in the life itself but actually entirely out of it because it 
is dead in itself. 


[GGJ.n_0i2,04] The angel spirit led me away to a solar system that was 
completely unknown to me, where also planets were orbiting around a sun, just 
like here, and he showed me very clearly that the right care for this region was 
entrusted to him, for everything obeyed very precisely to his word. By that, all 
power flowed into him, solely by merging his will with Yours that he recognized 
as the only true and right one by which he thus had no trouble to submit to the 
higher will and to execute it. All the wonderful sorts of animals and plants that I 
saw were his thoughts. After they were in a certain way examined by You and 
determined that they were true images of Your basic thought, he placed them 
outside of himself and fixed them by holding the thoughts fast in himself and 
gave them a material form. So something was created. 


[GGJ.n_0i2,05] I saw for instance how the angel formed a new planet in himself 
that has to serve as a habitation for future people. He showed me how that 
thought is developed - just like when an artist forms an image in himself and 
imagines it in all details. But since he strives to only express what is also just and 
right according to You, he united himself in his heart with You, the all ruling 
Father of eternity, and presented in a certain way his plan to You. You said to 
him, although not in words but in the spirit: ‘It is good and just according to Me, 
do it so.’ And immediately the spirit of the angel in him was moving, he filled 
himself with great willpower, and on the sun, that was under his authority, there 
was a roaring and a ball - the future planet - that detached itself from it. It was 
thrown away and joined in orbits that corresponded exactly to the image that I 
saw before. 


[GGJ.n_oi2,o6] In this creation with You and also in You, he experiences the 
greatest possible bliss, for only by this, every angel spirit can be like You a Creator 
and become more perfected. 


[GGJ.n_0i2,07] Although it is not given to us to feel even one atom of that bliss, 
for we would not be able to bear it, I nevertheless received a clear image now that 
it is only in activity - in You and outside of You, in the unifying chain of the 
highest blazing love for You and 92 by that also for Your creatures - that the bliss 
can be found and felt, but not by doing nothing or by inactively admiring the 
creation. If we only would stare at the creation and would not try to understand it 
through activities, Your greatness, 0 Lord, would pull us down instead of making 
our progress possible. 


[GGJ.n_oi2,o8] I will therefore make effort with all my might to find the right 
unifying link of the chain by the full love for You, 0 Lord, and for my fellowman, 
so that also I may once be capable to be active in Your Kingdom like that angel 
spirit, because that good heavenly friend explained very clearly to me that this is 
possible and that each one of Your creatures can do this, so that I well understood 
it and I will thus never more give up that goal that can be reached. 


[GGJ.n_0i2,09] Therefore, my deepest thanks go to You, 0 Lord and Master, 
because You already showed me and let me understand such wonderful things 
during my earthly life. Now my soul is no more withered but full of heavenly 
knowledge and deep gratitude for my Lord and Creator who still led me so 
wonderfully at the end of my life from the valley of death to the height of the 
purest life.” 


[GGJ.n_oi2,io] I said: “You did your best to put the clearest words together of 
what you have seen, and all those who are present understood you well, for they 
saw similar things of what you saw. But for those who did not and who will later 
hear about it will only have a weak idea of it unless their inner sight is also 
opened. As long as man is in his body, which forces him to bring everything more 
into balance, he is not well off for what concerns the highest spiritual things 
because he also wants to measure and experience this with his undeveloped sense 
organs, which is as less possible as when you would try to pour a bucket of water 
in a little measuring cup. Therefore it is better that you keep silent before 
everyone about what you have seen as this can only be useful to you and will not 
be understood by others anyway, as you yourselves can easily sense. 

[GGJ.ii_012,ii] But let us now again go outside, for I still want to perform a good 
deed for this village. After that we will continue our way even today.” 


Chapter 13. 

THE LORD BLESSES THE VILLAGE 


NOW we stood up from our table and walked out of the house upon the road. I 
already said that the village was small and so it did not consist of too many 
houses, but it nevertheless was well located to spend the night because it was only 
one day’s trip from Jerusalem and it was the last on the way to Petra to offer a 
pleasant accommodation, and this with our innkeeper Mucius. It was also not too 
far from the Jordan, so that there was also no lack of water. But there was a lack 
of big, high trees that were indispensable because they make the malicious vapors 
harmless and suck up electricity, protecting in this way the houses from the 
evaporations of the Dead Sea that are very perceptible when the wind comes from 
the south. All houses were only surrounded by rather high bushes and somewhat 
withered low trees as they could not grow high because of the salty vapors. To fix 
this was the good deed that I wanted to do for the village. 


[GGJ.n_0i3,02] So I talked with Mucius about this matter and also with a few of 
his neighbors who came quickly to us when they saw Me coming out of the house 
with the disciples, for they heard from the helper Marcius and others about the 
miraculous multiplication of the bread and the other things. They all asked Me to 
temper the glowing rays of the sun which were more strongly felt in the Jordan 
Valley and if I could provide a protection against the vapors. I gave them what 
they asked, blessed the land, and at that same moment a dense forest of fir trees 
arose in the south toward the sea and at quite a distance beside the road, so that 
the change could only be noticed by people who knew the region very well. These 
trees are best suited to consume sharp salty vapors and will nevertheless grow 
well. That forest formed a protecting wall toward the sea, but at this day it 
disappeared also a long time ago. 


[GGJ.n_0i3,03] I told the inhabitants that it would be as easy for Me to also 
suddenly, just like the forest that came into existence, put down a big number of 
trees and high bushes around their houses but that it would be better for them if 
this would be done in a more natural way to reach that goal, for their village was 
actually not so far away and to many Romans and not-Jews who travel along the 
road, superstition would be too much supported because they would attribute 
such miracle to their gods and would cause much trouble to the inhabitants. But 
beginning with the coming spring, all plants, trees and bushes would show a 
remarkable growth, so that in 2 years time they would show a luxurious 
abundance and would thus give the village coolness and good, pure air. But if the 
inhabitants would cut the protecting coniferous forest out of greed, then also the 
formerly often unbearable condition would come back, especially in the middle of 
the summer, and would finally make it impossible to live in this region. 


[GGJ.n_0i3,04] Now the inhabitants thanked Me with all their heart and asked 
Me to tell them who I actually was, from where came My power and so on. I 
referred them to Mucius and said that he knew the answer to all their questions 
and that they just had to turn to him, then they would receive the right 
explanation. 


Chapter 14. 

THE LORD LEAVES THE INN 


NOW we went back to the room again where we were before, and Mucius thanked 
Me once more for all the good deeds that I had shown to him and to the village. 


[GGJ.n_0i4,02] I said to him: “My dear Mucius, I said to you yesterday that you 
are stingy and not friendly to the Jews, and that, if it would not have been so late, 
I would have avoided entering your house. Now let Me again explain something 
to you, so that you will have the right guideline for your future life. 


[GGJ.n_0i4,03] Look, you are a Greek from birth, but for what concerns your 
heart you are a Roman. Now, for what concerns your spirit, do your best to follow 
only My teaching. For to Me there are no Romans, Greeks, Jews, Persians or 
other nations. There are only people who will all have part in the Kingdom of God 
in the heart and also on Earth. However, one people had to be chosen from which 
salvation comes forth, and this could only be the Jewish people because only 
there the right foundation was laid already by Moses and the prophets. But this 
does not mean that this nation is more than other nations. O no, only when they 
would have accepted My teaching and would have recognized the true Messiah, 
whom I always am and will be, they would have become the mightiest and also 
the most noble nation, because the conditions for it were present in that nation by 
the soil that had been cultivated for centuries. But since this will not happen, it 
will also be like this: ‘The first ones will be the last ones.’  

[GGJ.ii_ 014,04] Since you know this now also, you should not despise or 
perhaps hate this people when you soon will hear what they will do to Me, but 
consider them as lost ones who do not know what they do, and try with all your 
heart to lead them on the right way wherever you can. So do not favor your fellow 
citizens but be righteous to everyone, so that you will not receive the bad name of 
being rude, unfriendly and miserly. 


[GGJ.n_0i4,05] Always try to follow My example and do your best to be 
especially patient. For look, despite when in a lot of occasions all of you would 
already have broken the thread of patience, I remain patient, listen calmly to the 
great foolishness of the people and try to teach them in a manner that is not 
repulsive to them, and I am doing good works for them as much as possible. 
Look, Mucius, this is how you all should be if you truly want to be My disciples. 


[GGJ.n_oi4,o6] It was for you the last time to be converted and to come to the 
right understanding, for you were already urged many times to open up your 
inner being and make it accessible for the spirit of love, tolerance and truth, so 
that it already became late in the evening for you, otherwise I would not have 
taken up accommodation with you as I told you yesterday and that you only now 
would understand these words in the right way. 


[GGJ.n_0i4,07] So act now according to My words. Be assured that for you and 
your house My blessing will always be there on your way of life so that you will be 
a strong support in My Kingdom.” 


[GGJ.n_oi4,o8] Mucius was so moved after these words of Mine that he could 
not utter even one word. He wanted to kneel down at My feet but I lovingly lifted 
him up, hugged and blessed him. Then he felt completely strengthened, and 
deeply moved in his inner being he went to My disciples who all lovingly held his 
hands without saying one word, for when the spirit works in the innermost of the 
heart, the mouth is not capable to express in words what the soul is feeling. 


[GGJ.n_0i4,09] Now Phoikas the businessman came to Me and said: “Lord 
and Master, can You still give me a good advice as to what I should do. I know 
now that not only life can be found with You but that You Yourself are the Life. 
Even if I did not mention with many words about all the things that happened in 
me during my stay here, I nevertheless know that for You, o Lord, nothing is 
hidden and that already a long time ago You read in my heart about my condition. 
I am determined now not to lose again the once found salvation and want to live 
from now on in a way that can only be right in Your eyes. During the short time 
that I was carried away from the Earth I was also able to see who You actually are. 
And the angel who carried me away to his solar world showed me very clearly 
where God can to be found and that the full deity Himself lives in You. But when 
one is completely penetrated with that truth as I am, it is also natural that I only 
wish to fulfill Your will, o Father of eternity, and wherever possible to arrange my 
life according to Your satisfaction.” 


[GGJ.n_oi4,io] I said to Phoikas: “Your attitude is all the more pleasing to Me 
because all your striving was up to now only based on gathering earthly treasures, 
which you certainly do not lack now. But since, at the awakening of the spirit in 
you, your former way of life seems dull and disgusting to you - which can also not 
be any different since it only originated from matter - nothing stands in your way 
to entirely give it up. 


[GGJ.ii_oi4,n] I therefore think that you will find here with Mucius a true 
friendly house, especially because you have no children or attachment at all and 
no one will thus hinder you to have your time completely at your disposal so that 
you both, because of the many strangers that travel through this village, will be 
able to do many good works. Because treasures that you acquired through honest 
work will only give you true blessing when you will use them to support the poor 
and the needy, and there is plenty of opportunity for this here. Lately you often 
wanted to lay down your work but you were afraid of doing nothing and of the 
resulting boredom. Look, here lies a vast working field before you where you will 
not lack the opportunity to be active, and also not My blessing. What do you think 
now about this proposal?” 


[GGJ.n_oi4,i2] Phoikas said: “O Lord, it is completely according to the 
thought that already came in me but which I did not dare to speak out because I 
did not know if Mucius would like to hear it. But now that You are mentioning it 
Yourself, I also know that he will like it since it is Your will that we work together 
anyway, and I firmly believe that I will find a dear friend in him.” 


[GGJ.n_oi4,i3] Mucius hurried to confirm this and the joy shone from his eyes 
because he was able to do something to fulfill My wish. Since he heard that I still 
wanted to travel on today, the businessman asked Me if he could help Me with his 
mules because the sacks with the goods could stay here anyway and selling them 
was not urgent. But I said that I did not want to travel along the big road via 
Jericho to Jerusalem but more to the north into the Jordan Valley where his 
animals could not follow us. So he could travel directly to Jerusalem, put his 
business in order and then make arrangements to move out. 

[GGJ.ii_ 014,14] He also asked Me what he should do with his companions when 
they will come back from Petra, which would soon happen. I told him to do 
nothing because, even though they were not unreasonably minded, their thoughts 
were nevertheless still too much directed towards the profit of this world and they 
had therefore no ground to accept My Spirit and My teaching. They would 
consider him a weird person which however he could easily bear because it would 
not harm him. Later, on their future trips they would always look for him and 
then they would be taught by him at the right time. 


[GGJ.ii_ 014,15] With this, also Phoikas was satisfied and he gave his servants 98 
immediately the necessary instructions to break up because he did not want to 
delay one hour to fulfill My will. 


[GGJ.n_oi4,i6] Now everything was arranged and the time to say goodbye had 
come. The innkeeper and his family, the neighbors and Phoikas took leave from 
us under many words of gratitude after I had blessed them all once more, and we 
walked now all along the big road up to the shallow waters of the Jordan. 


Chapter 15. 

THE LORD PREPARES HIS DISCIPLES FOR THE FUTURE 

AF TER we passed through the shallow waters we went straight to the north on a 
bypath that went through a very pleasant hill landscape. This was because I 
wanted to avoid the environment of Jericho, and because on that trip, which was 
very lonely and where nothing special was happening, My disciples had to climb 
to an inner level of perfection. 


[GGJ.n_0i5,02] Because gradually the time was now coming of which it is 
stated: ‘Now you still can see Me, but in a little while you will not see Me’, and it 
was necessary to more inform all My followers who were mature for that, because 
especially My disciples still did not want to believe that the Jews would receive 
power and authority over Me despite the many hints they received about this. 
Therefore, I led them on completely unknown ways ever deeper into the 
mountains. 


[GGJ.n_0i5,03] When evening came, we sat down in the open at the feet of a 
rather high mountain, and I spoke to My followers as follows: “My beloved ones, 
for a long time you have been witnesses of My deeds and My teaching, so that you 
can know now how and by what the Kingdom of Heaven has come near and has 
come down to you in all His fullness. However, I led you now to this remote valley 
to let you become silent within yourselves and reflect in quietness to strengthen 
your faith for the coming events, for when the Shepherd is hit, it is not good that 
the sheep would not at least know how they can find their way to the stall on their 
own. 


[GGJ.n_0i5,04] So be prepared to search within yourselves to see where it is still 
dark in your heart, so that the Light, as long as it shines, can well illuminate all 
corners and that you will know your house well when there will be temporary 
darkness. For I surely know that you are weak, although you think that you are 
giants, this as long as I personally support you. Once this will lack it will come 
clear how strong you are and whether you do not have to worry to fall. 


[GGJ.n_0i5,05] But let us first strengthen our bodies now, and do as I told you. 
Examine your inner self, and if anyone discovers a question in him, bring it 
forward. But one of you should look behind those bushes to see what is given to 
us.” 


[GGJ.n_oi5,o6] Now Peter and James went immediately to the place that was 
indicated and came up with several breads and also wine in carafes with which we 
had a good evening meal. 


[GGJ.n_0i5,07] When this was finished, all remained silent. Everyone reflected 
on My teaching and My deeds but no one asked a question. Even Peter, who 
otherwise had so many things to mention and asked questions oftentimes that 
were somehow already answered in former lessons, remained completely quiet 
and waited to see what finally would happen if I would begin to speak, for they all 
really noticed that they had to make this little trip to the mountains. 


[GGJ.n_oi5,o8] When there was a general waiting silence, I spoke again and 
said: “My beloved ones, who all followed Me without asking to where I would lead 
you, listen to what I will tell you. But listen with your heart, not only with your 
ears, for all secrets and teachings that I revealed to you can only be understood 
when the heart can feel its truth and when not only the human reason is asked for 
its opinion. 


[GGJ.n_0i5,09] Now the time is coming near of which the Scripture says: ‘The 
Son of man will now be raised’, and of which it is written: ‘He will trample your 
head and you (the snake) will stab Him in the heal’. Now My work as teacher here 
comes to an end, and yours will soon start. But you must be well prepared, so that 
you will not become weak and tremble for the terrors of the future. For despite all 
the strength that will flow to you, you will nevertheless have it very difficult to 
stand firm and to overcome your human nature. 


[GGJ.n_oi5,io] When you will continue the work which will be accomplished 
here by Me, then remember My words on the mountain Gerizim: ‘Happy are 
those who for the sake of justice will be persecuted (and who do not give up their 
ways), for the Kingdom of Heaven is theirs. Happy are you when the people will 
despise and persecute you because of Me and will speak all kinds of evil of you 
when they lie.’ For their lies will turn against themselves and destroy them, and 
you will receive the crown of truthfulness. So be not afraid, even if you will not 
see Me anymore, for despite that, I will stay with you till the end of the world. 


[GGJ.ii_oi5,n] But when the great and prominent ones of the world will come 
and offer you big amounts of money to serve them, to become greater through 
you and become more famous, then tell them that you already serve another Lord 
who pays you very well and who recognizes you as His loyal servants, and that 
you therefore cannot accept another service, for no one can serve two masters and 
do justice to both. Then they will ask you who that Lord is. Then do not deny Me, 
but confess Me openly, for the one who will deny Me, I also will once deny and 
sent him away from Me. And the one who will be rejected from Me, will have to 
wait long and suffer many difficulties, fear and anguish before the light will shine 
again in him. So act upon My words.” 


Chapter 16. 

THE LORD AND LUCIFER 

WHEN I gazed over the group of My followers who listened very attentively to 
My words and did not really know what to think of it, My soul felt deep 
compassion and ultimate love for those who followed Me in full trust. I saw 
however at the same time how the evil in them tried to divert their souls away 
from Me and turn them to the world. Then the deity in Me became angry and the 
Man Jesus stepped backward so that only the Father in Me was dominant. 


[GGJ.n_0i6,02] And the almightiness (I) spoke: “Let us try once more and see if 
we cannot not succeed to free all these from what strives downward, freeing them 
to become children from above, and if the lost son will not return to the house of 
the Father.” 

[GGJ.ii_oi 6,03] And see, they all fell in a deep sleep. But I, as the Man Jesus and 
still God from eternity, stood there alone and called Lucifer before Me, the fallen 
arch angel, for whose sake all this was created. 


[GGJ.n_0i6,04] Then the souls of those who were sleeping made themselves 
loose from their bodies and gathered around Me, and in them glowed a bright 
shining spark which gave these still very defiled souls light and warmth of life. 


[GGJ.n_0i6,05] They knelled before Me and asked Me (the souls of the 
disciples): “O Lord, do not turn away from us. You have saved us and will 
further lead us.” 


[GGJ.n_oi6,o6] And Lucifer stood there in the form of a beautiful young man 
before Me, but without brilliance, with his head bended, waiting for My word. 


[GGJ.n_0i6,07] I said to him: “Bearer of light, You were not able to see the 
deity, but could only feel Him, and when you went out from the middle of My love 
to create love and light in all the spaces of eternity, you believed that you were not 
the carrier but the possessor of that power. You changed your love into pride and 
said: ‘A God that cannot be seen is no God. The created beings that exist by my 
will honor me as the only visible being, as God. Therefore I want to be and stay 
God for them.’ 


[GGJ.n_oi6,o8] Then My voice called within you, and said: ‘The fullness of My 
Spirit works with you and in you, and all the qualities that are in Me form a 
ladder, upward and downward into infinity. I want to give you a part of My 
power, so that each one will rule from his most inner limits which forms a point 
that lies deep inside, flowing out of infinity from two sides. So while you came 
forth as a finite being from Me, you still can be infinitely active with Me as 
antipode that stands justified before Me.’ 


[GGJ.n_0i6,09] But you did not heed the warning, for your power created 
numberless beings out of yourself, and they followed you and 102 became mighty 
because I did not want to destroy the newly created beings that were a part of 
you. That multitude became bigger and bigger and they made you their god. Then 
you sinned again and said: ‘I am God, for nowhere do I see the power that creates 
something’. Fool, as if the finite could ever see and understand the infinite. 


[GGJ.n_oi6,io] Then I shackled you, and see, that same Power stands here 
personally before you and says to you: “I am the God that was not visible up to 
now. Do you recognize Me now? Return to your Father’s house, so that you will 
be freed from your shackles and occupy the place that belongs to you. See here 
those of them that kneel down before Me, who are set free from you, made innerly 
alive by My breath and who are dedicated to Me forever. Give up your pride. Let 
the warmth of My love blow in you, then all matter will disintegrate into nothing.” 


[GGJ.n_oi6,n] Lucifer said: “You are Jesus from Nazareth, a Man with great 
power, which also I once possessed. But to recognize God, the highest power, the 
infinite in the finite, in You, no, never! What happened to me can also happen to 
others. Human beings are mortal, their bodies will rot. This is what will also 
happen to You, Your body will dissolve, and only dust will be left over from Jesus. 


[GGJ.ii_oi 6,12] I know my guilt and I see that I am stripped of my brilliance, 
and I give You also these few that are mine, who are following You there. But the 
almightiness will never consider to destroy His creation, which is actually my 
work, which I actually gave to Him and which I love also, just like Him, for it is 
out of me. Let the battle continue, for only by this battle life exists. The horror of 
death is my work, and by that I keep my creatures with me, and they stay with me 
so that my qualities can live in them. So, it is good as it is. Then what do You still 
want from me?” 


[GGJ.ii_oi6,13] I said: “This is not the place to argue, for you very well know 
what it is all about. I, as Son of man, received all power from the Heavens, and 
only your hardness does not want to recognize Me because you still hope to 
overcome the deity, to overpower Him. You interpret His great tolerance as a 
weakness, His love as powerlessness. You do not want to let your multitude loose, 
for whose salvation I have covered Myself now in the garment of matter, and you 
try to stir them up, although you know that your followers have become much 
weaker and smaller. You succeeded to capture the minds and turned them away 
from the knowledge. The existence of paganism is your work. However, despite 
all that, all your deeds turned out in such a way that the fallen ones were still led 
to Me - and all that is not sufficient to you?” 


[GGJ.ii_oi6,14] Lucifer said: “Those who fell to You, only await my call to come 
back. Give me the opportunity to prove to You how weak they are. And when I 
loose, I will acknowledge You. Give me power over Your body, let me see the 
inner Man that lives in You, then we will see how little divinity clings to it. And 
once Jesus will have paid His tribute to death, also these here will come back 
again to me, to whom they belong.” 
 

[GGJ.ii_oi6,15] I said: “What I will lead Myself into My Kingdom is lost for you 
forever. Since the first beginning of the world I know best which ways will lead to 
salvation. But beware, your measure is full. Out of love for the creatures of My 
Heavens and globes I came back, and out of love for them I will accomplish the 
work, despite your stubbornness. 


[GGJ.n_oi6,i6] Do not boast about the fact that with your destruction also the 
destruction of all the created beings out of you are sealed, so that their time also 
depends on yours. Once the time will come that you will stand before Me, not 
only stripped of your brilliance like now, but also stripped of every being out of 
you, and then no created being will be affected by your destruction anymore. 
Then you will have to decide again, in case you do not prefer to come to Me 
earlier in your free will. But now go away from here, for My decision stands firm, 
and My will shall be done.” 


[GGJ.n_oi6,i7] Then Lucifer disappeared. And I blessed those souls who stood 
around Me, strengthened them and ordered them to return into their bodies. 


Chapter 17 

THE PLAN OF CREATION AND SALVATION REVEALED 


NOTA BENE: Many will ask the question here why I actually called the souls of 
My disciples out of their bodies to make them witness this event. This was 
because of two reasons. 


[GGJ.n_0i7,02] Firstly, when they wake up, they should not remember this 
during their life on Earth, for that would have been unnecessary for them, even 
harmful for their further development, and secondly because the soul can only 
perceive his former levels of development in his free condition. What matters is 
the last mentioned, so that these souls could completely recognize Me as their 
Lord and Creator and would ask Me to protect them. Lucifer had to realize that he 
was losing more and more followers and that his power became ever weaker. 


[GGJ.n_0i7,03] Now here is the moment to understand the following and 
explain very clearly who and what Lucifer actually is, how one should visualize 
him and how he can be overcome in every individual, for only when these most 
important questions are correctly and clearly answered is it possible to 
understand the creation, My descend to this Earth , and My suffering and dying. 
So, while putting aside every other opinion, let the world listen to the great secret 
of My plan of creation and salvation. 


[GGJ.n_0i7,04] When the deity had found Himself through processes that will 
always remain hidden to you, and became aware of His creative and all- 
encompassing Spirit, a mighty surging and pushing arose in Him and He spoke in 
Himself: ‘I want to put My ideas outside of Me, so that I will be able to see from 
this what My powers can do.’ For as long as there is no activity, the deity can only 
know Himself in a small measure. It is only through His works that He becomes 
ever more aware of His power and rejoices in it (just like every master artist can 
only see from his own products what is in him and rejoices in it). 


[GGJ.n_0i7,05] So the deity wanted to create, and spoke then to Himself: ‘In Me 
there is all power of the eternities. Let us therefore create a being who is equipped 
with all power, equal to Me, but in such a way that he will have the qualities in 
him in which I can recognize Myself.’ And a spirit was created who was equipped 
with all the power from Me to make visible to the deity the powers that are in Me. 


[GGJ.n_oi7,o6] In this spirit, the deity Himself wanted to determine the fixed 
point of His own active power - just like a human being, when he walks, will only 
find a fixed point of support on the firm ground of the Earth to activate his power 
to move forward. The resistance of the Earth itself is good, it is even the means by 
which the power actually appears and by which a moving forward can take place. 
This power that was delivered, which was placed in the new spirit that came into 
existence, was the antipode - wanted by the deity - which means the contrast of 
all those qualities that you call divine. That antipode is therefore not un-divine, 
but makes it only possible to spread the right light of knowledge. 


[GGJ.n_0i7,07] Because it must be possible for every quality, when perfect, to be 
viewed from two sides. My perfection can be found where both sides fall into one 
point. Descending and ascending from this center point, they both lose 
themselves into infinity. 


[GGJ.n_oi7,o8] Take love for example, the highest law and the most noble 
quality in the center of My heart. Everyone will easily perceive that a very loving 
person can increase further in his love, for it is clear that already on your Earth a 
more loving person can always be found. And nevertheless you will see that very 
loving people will also have the right antipode in them by which they are also 
capable to refuse, out of love and for wise reasons, all kinds of wishes if by that 
they were to harm those who came asking. 

[GGJ.ii_ 017,09] If a being were created and placed on that border from which he 
freely can develop himself into both directions, it is easy to realize that he more 
and more will be able to develop the possibility in himself to refuse. He will by 
that separate himself more and more from the middle border and will finally 
loose himself into the most endless depths of the antipode, meaning in extreme 
hardening. Thus, when you look at a bad person you always can imagine a person 
that is worse, with less love, who will lose himself in egoism because of the 
extreme separation. 


[GGJ.n_oi7,io] Now, if I created a being who possessed all - mind you, without 
exception - just poles of My divine qualities, it does not mean that I completely 
did away with them, so that I as God would in a way only exist out of one half. It 
only means that I created a being whom I placed on that mentioned border, 
equipped with My almightiness with which he thus was active and whom I gave 
the freedom to develop himself upwards or downwards. And from that complete 
power I let him work freely. 


[GGJ.ii_oi7,n] That first light of knowledge - meaning the knowledge of the 
possibility to develop oneself upwards or downwards - should keep the being in 
the center out of his free will, be active from there in very close connection with 
the divine initial Spirit and always create new beings with his own creative power, 
so that the Creator as well as the creature could truly delight in it and savor in 
that joyful activity a higher degree of blissfulness. 


[GGJ.n_oi7,i2] Now if I tell you that the name of this first created spirit was 
‘Lucifer’ (meaning ‘Bearer of light’), you will also understand why he was named 
that way and not otherwise. He carried within himself the light of knowledge, and 
as first spiritual being he was well aware of the limits of the inner spiritual 
polarities. Equipped with My complete power, he now called other beings to 
life who were equal to him in everything. They also felt the deity and saw the 
same light of knowledge lighting up in them, and they also were active with their 
own creative power and were equipped with all the power of My Spirit. 
However, special powers of My initial Spirit were expressed in them, this means 
that for what concerns their character they became similar to My seven most 
important qualities, and so their number was 7. 


[GGJ.n_oi7,i3] One should not think that the 6 other qualities were then lacking 
if their character was similar to one of the 7 qualities, but their being possessed a 
special characteristic which made them the carrier of that special quality which 
they particularly developed, for already in the very beginning I took care that My 
created beings would depend on each other by necessity - the best way to prevent 
them from becoming proud regarding each other. 


[GGJ.n_oi7,i4] Lucifer, who surely knew that he represented the Antipode of 
God in himself, thought now that it would be possible as it were to suck up the 
deity, and he fell into the misconception that he, as a created and so a finite being, 
could absorb the infinite into him, for also here the law was valid: ‘No one can see 
God (the infinite) and keep his life at the same time’. As a result of that, he could 
feel the essence of the deity and hear His commands as long as he was standing in 
the right center point, but he never could see Him personally. 


[GGJ.n_oi7,i5] Now because a finite being can and will never understand the 
infinity, and can by that, regarding this point, easily fall into errors and by going 
down harden himself in these, Lucifer fell, despite all warnings, into the delusion 
that he could absorb and capture the deity. Through that, he left his right 
position, distanced himself from the center point of My heart and fell ever more 
victim to the wrong wish to gather around him his beings - who existed by him 
but out of Me - in order to rule over the spaces that were inhabited by all kinds of 
beings. 


[GGJ.n_oi7,i6] Now there was a discord, that means a separation of groups 
which finally resulted in the withdrawal of the power that was given by Me to 
Lucifer, and with his followers he became powerless and his creative power was 
taken away. 


[GGJ.n_oi7,i7] Of course, the question came up: ‘What will happen now with 
that multitude of fallen ones who were as if dead, that means without activity?’ 


[GGJ.n_oi7,i8] There were only two ways. The first way was: to destroy Lucifer 
with his followers and then create a second one who would probably be subjected 
to the same error since a more perfect spirit, completely set free out of Me and 
therefore not dependent of My will, could not be created. To create machines 
without will that execute what I command was not difficult. But to acquire the 
light of self-awareness was up to now the only way. Since also the other spirits 
who remained loyal to Me were created via Lucifer, they belonged to his sphere. A 
sudden destruction of Lucifer would thus also have resulted in the destruction of 
all living beings. 


[GGJ.ii_ 017,19] Imagine a person who put his children and grandchildren 
around him who spring from him as mediator, but who actually still owe their life 
to Me. If the deeds, thoughts, and so on, of this person were destroyed forever, 
then also his descendants would be destroyed since otherwise the remembrance 
to him would still live on in them. Only a complete erasing of everything that ever 
came into contact with him - independent whether this was good or bad and 
deserved to be destroyed or not - would make a complete forgetting possible. 


[GGJ.n_oi7,2o] But why should Lucifer deserve this since his fall took only place 
because of a misconception by which the possibility existed to do away with that 
misconception? Why would those beings who remained loyal have deserved their 
destruction? And finally: where would be My wisdom if since the very beginning I 
would not have known and foreseen about the possibility of the fall and that 
therefore to repeat the course of creation had to be excluded? And most of all: 
where would be My love if it would not hold back a destruction but rather find 
ways by its wisdom to bring the lost beings back to the light of knowledge so that 
as a result they would remain in the right balance of the polar qualities? 


[GGJ.n_oi7,2i] So only the second way remained which you can see before you 

in the Material Creation. 


[GGJ.il_017,22] Imagine a person who absolutely does not want to realize that 

the king of the country is a mighty ruler since he, although equipped with all 
power and authority by that king, never saw him personally. He rebels against 
him and would raise himself to be king. In order not to bring the subordinates to 
ruin who remained loyal to him, the king grabs him, removes his splendor, takes 
away his authority and throws him in a locked chamber, just as long as it takes to 
let him come to reason, and he will do the same with the followers. They will be 
freed according to how much the followers will do penance, realize their error and 
firmly adhere to the king who shows himself now also visibly to them. 


[GGJ.n_oi7,23] This weak earthly image shows you what I have done, because 
the material creation means that imprisonment. However, to understand the 
following you must awake the feeling of your soul, because the human reason falls 
too short to understand this. 


[GGJ.n_oi7,24] A soul is composed of numberless particles of which each one of 
them comes from an idea that originated from Me, and once he has found himself 
he cannot become anything else anymore than what he is because he then 
corresponds to the character that he accepted. When a crystal is crystallized, its 
characteristic cannot be changed anymore, and it crystallizes either as rhomboid, 
hexagon, octagon, and so on, according to the form of its nature, that means 
depending on how the parts accumulated around its life’s center.  


[GGJ.ii_017,25] Now when there has to be a change because the crystals did not 
end up completely pure, they have to be dissolved by warmth (love), to crystallize 
them out again during the cooling off of the warm love water which is the same as 
giving up their will. Now again new, beautiful crystals will form, and every careful 
chemist will in this manner know how to obtain the most beautiful, clearest and 
biggest crystals that correspond to his purpose. 


[GGJ.n_oi7,26] Look, such chemist am I. I dissolved the crystals that became 
impure (Lucifer and his followers) in the warm water of love and I let those souls 
crystallize out again to make them pure. That this happened by the ascension 
through the mineral kingdom and the plant kingdom up to man is known to you. 
But as the soul of Lucifer encloses the whole material creation, also that has to 
express itself in the form of a human being. That is why always all unions of 
spirits unite in one person, expressed by the leader of that union, and they form 
what is called his sphere. There is nothing similar on the material level which 
expresses this clearly. That is why I say: open up the feeling of your soul. 


[GGJ.n_oi7,27] Now it will also be clear to you that Lucifer thinks that he must 
act the way it happens, so that matter could be created - a misconception because 
it is not matter that is the end goal of My creation. But the only goal for the beings 
who were placed outside of Me is to know the truth in freedom, to love and to 
understand the deity. Matter is only the means for that. Lucifer wanted to hold on 
to this second misconception and lost himself in the outer limits of his polar 
qualities while he lied to himself that he had to maintain matter because of that. 
Enough freedom was given to him to penetrate matter, that means to consciously 
contemplate in himself so that he as very first created spirit would realize what 
kind of suffering he caused to his companions and that by that he may turn 
around. But this he did not do and only from then on he wanted to rule as a king 
of matter that belonged to him. That is why he darkened as much as possible the 
human crystals, which came to development again, to maintain his kingdom, 
because the battle with God seemed great, exalting and life sustaining to him. 


[GGJ.n_oi7,28] The human crystals that also had to be set free again in order to 
attain to the goal could be inclined to him or to Me, and during their life they 
repeatedly fell into his nets. Look at paganism in which he let himself be honored 
as king, and honor his polar qualities, which also contain great wisdom, as gods. 


[GGJ.n_oi7,29] Now one will ask: Why did I allow all this? This remains 
incomprehensible when one does not look at the final goal, and that is: to freely 
recognize oneself in God. 




[GGJ.ii_ 017,30] If it pleases a leader of a nation to live wrongly and he drags his 
followers with him, what is the quickest way to reach the goal to bring the right 
light to all? Indeed, when the leader of the nation himself will give up his 
wrongdoings, because his followers will quickly follow him. But by trying to turn 
his followers away from him individually, just as long as he will stand alone, the 
goal will be much more delayed. 


[GGJ.n_oi7,3i] For Me it is always: take on the kernel, and if it cannot be 
changed, then make a detour. 


[GGJ.n_oi7,32] Since during the imprisonment - think now about the image of 
the king - the reproach was always made: ‘If I just could see the king, I would 
believe in him’, this became the reason for My ill incarnation, firstly for those 
who fell, and secondly to make the deity personally visible to those who did not 
fall, and so to award their faith. 


[GGJ.ii_ 017,33] Herein lies the secret of My incarnation which had to break 
through matter that otherwise had to become harder and harder in case Lucifer 
would lose himself ever more in the hardness of his antipode. Therefore, My 
incarnation made this to stop and showed very precisely the way to be free from 
idol worship and the worship of the polar qualities. And also, firstly proof had to 
be given that death, by which people became attached to matter and its pleasures, 
can be overcome as the highest goal that can be reached, and secondly that life 
does not take place in matter but in spirit, and that the first mentioned is only a 
prison for the last mentioned. 


[GGJ.n_oi7,34] It is obvious that I prepared the most suitable country, people 
and family where My offering would certainly succeed, for otherwise Lucifer 
would have been able to conquer Me, and the history of the Jewish people is an 
answer to the question where this has to happen. 


Chapter 18 

THE VISION OF EBAL 


WHEN the disciples awoke from their kind of trance, they were all surprised that 
they fell asleep so deeply and they asked Me what actually happened to them. 



 


 

[GGJ.n_oi8,C)2] I said to them: “Do not worry about that, for many things will 
still happen by which you will ask the same question without that it can be 
directly answered. But at the right time you will also receive the right 
explanation.” 


[GGJ.n_0i8,03] Now among those of My followers there was also a Jew, named 
Ebal who accepted My teaching completely in his heart and was full of zeal to 
awaken his spirit. Through his past life, which gave him greater soul power, he 
acquired the gift of the second sight, which means the gift to see future or past 
events in him. 


[GGJ.n_0i8,04] He came to Me and said (Ebal): “Lord and Master, My soul 
always trembles in sorrow when in peaceful hours I visualize You. Then I see dark 
images that come up before me which seem to show me horrible things. I often 
visualized future and past events but I never felt this pain that I feel when I think 
about You and about the images that drift in my spirit before me.” 


[GGJ.ii_oi8,05] I said: “My dear Ebal, relate about the kind of images that you 
see, so that also these here will know what your soul feels.” 


[GGJ.n_oi8,o6] Ebal said: “Lord, I see the gates of Heaven opened, and from 
the immeasurable depths of creation a bright light beams towards me. And a 
voice says to me: ‘Look, this is the Light of the world that came down to the 
people to live among them.’ 


[GGJ.n_0i8,07] Further on, I saw You walking, and You were brightly shined 
upon by the light, and it shone completely through You, and in Your heart a flame 
was lightening up that became ever brighter. And the greater the brightness of the 
flame, the more the light disappeared that shone from outside. 


[GGJ.n_oi8,o8] Then I saw a dark image coming near that made effort to cover 
the light in You. And while he really tried to do that, I saw the multitudes in the 
sky who fearfully watched this event. And see, the more this image made effort to 
cover You in darkness the more the light was beaming in You, and finally, blinded 
by the intense glow of the light, he fell down before You. You touched the dark 
image that lay now as if dead before Your feet, and said: ‘Blessed are all sinners 
who do penance, and there is no sin so big that cannot be forgiven if the sinner 
asks for it in My name. Pray you also, so that you can be forgiven.’ 
 


 

[GGJ.ii_oi 8,09] And further, I saw that Your hands and feet were pierced, and 
from Your heart a drop of blood was flowing. The image that lay before Your feet 
sucked up the drop of blood, became alive now and became brighter and brighter 
till he finally was also glowing with great brightness. Then a voice sounded from 
the spaces of Heaven: ‘See, I sent out My son to bring back the lost one to Me, and 
He was not afraid to die in order to refresh the one who became weak with the 
blood of His heart and bring him to life. Hail Him, for now I will live completely 
in Him, for We have become One forever.’ 


[GGJ.n_oi8,io] When the voice faded away, I came to myself again. But just 
now I saw that same dark image standing next to me, laughing scornfully as if he 
wanted to tell me something and then disappeared. 


[GGJ.n_oi8,n] Please tell me, o Lord and Master, what was the meaning of all 
this, for no matter how beautiful is was to see, I nevertheless feel always a deep 
sorrow in me which often prevents me from thinking or feeling.” 


[GGJ.ii_oi8,12] I said: “Ebal, when your soul feels what will happen in the 
coming days, he fears at the same time the events of which he cannot realize or 
grasp the final goal. Then this strongly pulls him down and oppresses him by all 
these incomprehensible impressions that he - since he lacks the understanding - 
cannot solve, although he would like to. Then he feels pain like someone who is 
tied up and resists against his ropes, trying to free himself from them. Try more 
in your heart to kindle your love for God than you have done up to now. Be 
peaceful in your heart and listen to the voice of your spirit. Then soon a sharp 
knife of the right knowledge and patience will be given to you that will cut the 
ropes. 


[GGJ.ii_oi 8,13] All those who have the same gift as you and are by that capable 
to extend their soul far outside of themselves - capturing the future that already 
throws its shadows forward - and can awaken and visualize the past in 
themselves, should first of all practice patience and calmness interiorly, so that 
what they see will not exert pressure on them and that it can be completely 
understood. 


[GGJ.ii_oi 8,14] This is also the case with you, and soon the future itself will 
show you how true your vision is. 


[GGJ.ii_oi 8,15] But let us stop all conversation now and give your bodies the 
still necessary nightly rest which is especially beneficial under the free starry sky 
in this pure mountain air, because tomorrow a big work will be waiting for us. 
Although externally only for Me, but internally for all of you, and therefore you 
should be completely 114 prepared and strengthened. 


[GGJ.n_oi8,i6] Ebal went away from Me, and all those who were present lay 
down on the ground that was grown with moss which gave them a soft place to he 
on. Guarded by My Spirit they fell asleep in the vast house of the Father, quietly 
and sweet as children, for the last time under the unconditional care of My will. 
For from this day on My external must-law began to withdraw from them, so that 
- depending on their faith that had grown in Me - also the adversaries could have 
power over them, so that they could practice more independently instead of 
always to be surrounded by My personal divine power. For without being aware 
of it, it protected them also and provided them with everything while they did not 
have to worry about it. From now on had to appear how much My teaching and 
deeds had matured them and made them independent. 


Chapter 19 

THE LORD STAYS WITH RAEL 


WHEN they all woke up the next day they felt very strengthened, but they 
nevertheless all really felt a strange emptiness and independence in their soul 
which expressed itself by the fact that My disciples were arguing among each 
other about different questions instead of leaving its answers to Me as they used 
to do. This was the first sign that showed their new independence and free 
decision-making about their future ways which later even resulted in Peter’s 
denial despite his great love for Me. 


[GGJ.n_0i9,02] We soon left the valley which protected us last night and which 
had been the scene of such important event. And we went northwest to a little city 
more to the northeast of Jerusalem, called Rimmon. 


[GGJ.n_oi9,3] As soon as we entered, a man - after he introduced himself as a 
messenger of Lazarus’ sisters Martha and Maria - came to Me with a begging 
voice, urging Me to come immediately to Bethany because Lazarus was seriously 
ill and his sisters feared for his life. He further said that he already waited here for 
2 days, that besides him many messengers were sent out to search for Me, 
because I used to visit Lazarus around this time, and that he rejoiced for the sake 

of his lord that he found Me. CNJ 


[GGJ.ii_019,04] I answered the servant: “The sickness is not unto death but for 
the honor of God, so that the Son can be honored by it.” 


[GGJ.n_0i9,05] The servant understood these words as a certain sign that I 
would heal his lord, and he asked Me urgently to come immediately so that his 
lord would not have to suffer long. Then he left immediately to Bethany to the 
waiting sisters to bring them the joyful news. 


[GGJ.n_oi9,o6] And I turned to the disciples and said to them: “We will find an 
inn for us so that we can rest, for there is no hurry to go to Bethany.” 


[GGJ.n_0i9,07] Then Peter asked Me: “Lord, is Lazarus then already healed?” 


[GGJ.n_oi9,o8] I answered them: “No, but he will be healed, and for this it is 
necessary for him to first lay off what is unclean on him, as you also should lay off 
all that is unclean on you before you can enter the Kingdom of My and your 
Father.” 


[GGJ.n_oi9,oo] 9] The disciples did not ask further, for they were already used 
to it and learned to realize that My regulations were always the right ones. 


[GGJ.n_oi9,io] Now we walked through the city - which could actually better be 
called a big village - to its other side that was located at the road to Jerusalem. 
We came to a lovely house that was surrounded by a garden and quite remotely 
located. From the well maintained garden one could notice that the owner was 
part of the rich people and had obviously looked for a quiet place, away from the 
noisy world. 


[GGJ.ii_oi9,n] When we stood before the house and saw how beautifully it was 
located, a servant came outside and kindly invited us in the name of his lord to 
come closer and asked us if it would please us to take accommodation with him. 


[GGJ.n_oi9,i2] I was indicated as being the leader of the group and said to him: 
“Tell your lord that He, whom he expected for so long, has 116 come to take 
residence with him. 


[GGJ.n_oi9,i3] The servant went away, and we walked first into the front 
garden of the house. It did not take long before that same helper came back to us, 
asking us to follow him. He brought us to a big room that looked like a hall and, 
according to the custom of that time, was well arranged with carpets and various 
works of art, which immediately exposed the wealth of the owner. 


[GGJ.n_oi9,i4] Soon he appeared himself, supported by a servant. He was 
already a very old man who looked very respectable and weakened by the burden 
of old age. His outer appearance filled our whole group with deep respect, for his 
face shone with peace, and his whole being showed the respectful dignity of an 
old patriarch, more or less as everyone would imagine the image of a forefather. 


[GGJ.ii_ 019,15] He kindly greeted us and apologized that the burden of his years 
- for he was already 120 years old - hindered him to receive us directly, and he 
asked us to consider this impoliteness as not intended. 


[GGJ.n_oi9,i6] When he (Rael) looked at Me more closely, he became very 
surprised and said: “Rabbi, I saw You this night in a dream. You called to me: 
‘Rael, I am coming to you because you are longing for Me, and your house will be 
blessed by Me.’ 


[GGJ.n_oi9,i7] And see, now my dream comes true. Who are You, dear Master, 
and who are these men who seem to belong to You?” 


[GGJ.n_oi9,i8] I said to him: “I am the One whom you hope for and whom you 
expected for years. The One whom you know already and who became a stranger 
to you because it has been years since you saw Me for the first time.” 


[GGJ.ii_019,19] Rael answered: “Rabbi, my memory became weak. I know that I 
saw You before apart from my dream, but I nevertheless cannot see in me when 
that happened. But we still have time to talk about that. I am asking You to 
consider this house as Yours and to take a rest. My servants will serve you as my 
very dear guests - as if you were my true brothers.” 


[GGJ.n_oi9,2o] Rael ordered his servants now immediately to bring water to 
wash our feet and to prepare a meal. Everything was made ready in a big dining 
hall, and in a very short time, after we refreshed ourselves physically, we sat at 
the bread and the wine in the richly decorated hall of our respectable innkeeper 
and we all felt very comfortable. 

Chapter 20. 

RAI L RELATES ABOUT HIS LIFE 


WHEN we were sitting at the table, Rael asked again where he actually saw Me, 
for he could not remember when that happened. 


[GGJ.11_020,02] I said to him: “And still, it is very clearly written in your heart, 

but you dare not associate your fervent wish with an earthly human being. But 
would you not like to tell us yourself what the fervent wish is that lives in your 
heart? 


[GGJ.n_020,03] Rael, who sat next to Me, said: “Rabbi, the wish of every true 
Israelite is that the anointed of the Lord would come down from the Heavens and 
would live among us people like the prophets have announced. My days are 
counted, and the years that are normally given to men have greatly exceeded. This 
mercy of God was always considered by me as a sign that it will still be given to 
me to see the One who was promised to us and will enter the city of David and sit 
on the throne in Sion as a mighty ruler. See, Rabbi, that these days may be 
fulfilled is the most fervent wish that lives in my heart, and this I have now 
revealed to You and Your followers.” 


[GGJ.n_020,04] “Very right”, I said to Rael, whose face was merely shining 
when in pious belief he uttered this wish of his heart, “but tell us also if you ever 
discovered signs showing that the days are coming when God will visit His 
people?” 


[GGJ.n_020,05] Rael said: “Rabbi, I would not live anymore if I were not to 
know this for sure. Look, I saw a lot of the world and I have tried to acquire a 
greater knowledge than only what the temple allows. Our rules forbid to get 
involved with other teachings but in my young years I was some kind of a 
freethinker and hardly asked myself whether it was allowed or not. And 
everything that pleased me was allowable to me. And since we were rich at home 
and because of the early death of my parents and could independently dispose of 
my riches, I wanted to travel, hoping to increase my knowledge by that and to 
acquire a position among the people which would be higher than a scribe who 
never went far beyond the walls of Jerusalem. 


[GGJ.n_020,o6] Formerly - now almost 100 years ago - the people of the Lord 
did not possess the real firm faith anymore, which is becoming now a lot more 
unstable, and in my childhood I suspected that soon the predictions of the 

prophets had to come true. My impatience increased when I saw that the people 
lost their freedom and when Pompeiusi finally conquered the land and the holy 
city. I can still see it before my eyes how the Roman commander penetrated into 
the sanctuary and how the people, who were standing around the temple, really 
expected that the wrath of the Highest would smash down on the head of the 
pagan who profaned the sanctuary. But nothing happened. 


[GGJ.ii_ 020,07] The Roman was impressed with the sanctity of the place and he 
fearfully withdrew from the Most Holy, but the wrath of the Highest was not 
poured down on his head or on the great power of Rome. 


[GGJ.n_020,o8] Also, the Savior, the Messiah, did not come to His people. 


[GGJ.n_020,09] Then my heart was seized by a deep unbelief and I decided to 
turn away from the Promised Land. I already traveled through the whole region 
of Greece, Asia Minor and Italy, and I decided to search for the right knowledge 
where our people were enslaved - in Egypt. Moses had to be initiated in all the 
wisdom of the priests of the land of Egypt. I wanted to acquire the same wisdom. 


[GGJ.n_020,io] Formerly it was almost impossible, and only with the greatest 
perseverance and by recommendation of the king, to penetrate into the temple 
and the mysteries, but nowadays it is by far not so difficult anymore because the 
Egyptian secret teaching became now also a merchandise as many other special 
products of trade. Those who strife to acquire a higher knowledge, the real, old 
wisdom is as good as not taught because the priests do not understand anymore 
themselves what lies behind their images, and they only have empty complicated 
words of their old mysteries, just like in our temple where the form has covered 
the spiritual kernel. 


[GGJ.ii_020,ii] Only a few real, true priests - rare precious stones of the true, 
old cult - live withdrawn in a few regions of Egypt. They are partly considered as 
strange people, mocked and laughed at by their own companions, and partly 
honored as holy men by the people and the priests. But in truth, they are neither 
one nor the other but only faithful guards of the ancient, exalted, true faith and 
are left as witnesses of an important spiritual life of which the present world has 
no idea. 


[GGJ.il_020,12] I was lucky to meet such a man. In Thebe I bought myself into 

the service of Horus. There lived an old sage in the temple who was still honored kO 

with timidity and awe by the priesthood. During hours of holy spiritual trance he 



received the spirit of prophecy and his spiritual eye was opened. And since 
everything happened precisely as the spirit revealed to him, he was highly 
esteemed. 


[GGJ.n_020,i3] It is only thanks to him that I have this knowledge because the 
respectable man loved me and he once told me that I would still see the One 
whom he would not be able to see anymore except through me. ‘The spirit of 
wisdom comes down, sent by the eternal Love and will spread the brightest light. 
Then Isis will mourn for her killed husband, but the eternal Son will take over the 
rulership of the throne of the Father. Then a new time will begin. The circle of the 
Earth will turn over and a new world will come up until the Son, equipped with all 
power, will again keep the great judgment of death and will separate what is just 
and unjust.’ 


[GGJ.n_020,i4] This is what the sage told me, and I understand now very well 
what he meant. 


[GGJ.ii_ 020,15] And I, the only one whom he trusted completely, remained a 
disciple of this special man for 12 years. One day the sage told me that he felt that 
his death was near and he wanted me to keep what 120 he taught me. There is 
only one God, and everything that was created had to serve Him only. But the 
deity decided - as he was informed - to make His created beings very blessed by 
covering Himself with the flesh and to come down as a human being to show the 
ways to salvation to all who want to walk those ways. But shortly after that, a 
great judgment comes with it to make the ways clearly visible, also for the dark 
power of darkness. And although these ways are also valid for it, it tries to bring 
down what Love has built. Therefore, it would be good for everyone to examine 
himself so that he would not be hit by the judgment. And this examination should 
be: to love God above all and to respect the powers that radiate from Him, but not 
to worship them as gods, in order to avoid the wrong ways. It would not take long 
before the judgment will start to overthrow all the gods. 


[GGJ.n_020,i6] I had to swear to him that I would keep this one God of my 
fathers, for He was the same whom also he had found. Not a God of vengeance as 
He was often scold, but a God of love who is not furious neither punishes, who 
often must bring people to a halt so that they would not completely perish, and 
who often has to kill the bodies as the only means to save the souls. ‘See, the spirit 
told me - and my eyes have seen it - that your country was selected to let the 
great miracle become truth. There will happen what will always remain 
incomprehensible for the present time and later generations because it is divine 
and goes beyond human reason.’ 
[GGJ.ii_ 020,17] This is how my teacher and leader spoke concerning the 
spiritual mystery of the first religion of the Egyptian people which in fact - when 
understood in the right manner - only contains the same truths that can also be 
found in our statutes, although in another form. 


[GGJ.n_020,i8] Soon after that, he died, and I returned to my homeland to 
expect the great time. It was revealed to me in clear dreams that I would still 
witness this, but it nevertheless seemed to me better to withdraw from the circle 
of the temple servants and scribes, for it became all too clear to me that salvation 
would not come from there. The expected Messiah could impossibly appear 
amidst 121 people who only believe in God as long as it is to their own advantage, 
or it had to be a Messiah of only the mighty, the rich and the prominent ones, but 
not someone who would make the people happy.” 


Chapter 21 
THE LORD REMINDS RAEL ABOUT HIS PAST 


I SAID: “Did you never suspect, Rael, who the expected Messiah will be - the One 
who will come down or who already came down? 


[GGJ.11_021,02] While he looked at Me smiling, Rael said: “Master, You and 

Your followers came into my house while I did not ask: ‘Who are you?’ One must 
be welcoming, irrespective of persons, so that not only the prominent ones but 
also the poor will be served out of pure neighborly love. But before I answer this 
question, I would like to have a little idea of who you are. 


[GGJ.n_02i,03] Look, I am old and I would like to go peacefully to my fathers. 
So forgive me if I am careful to avoid troubling my head, which is not very 
popular in Jerusalem, and this can also happen to an old man when he opens up 
his most inner thoughts too soon.” 


[GGJ.n_02i,04] I said: “But if I would reveal your most inner thoughts here in 
front of all, will you then still be afraid that we would betray you?” 


[GGJ.n_02i,05] Rael said: “Rabbi, if You can do that, You must have attained to 
a high degree of perfection of the spirit which makes it possible to see the qq 

spiritual through the material, and then a mean action from Your part that could l_Q 

bring me into trouble would be completely excluded because high spiritual 
capabilities can only be reached when a person rejects what is mean. And then 
those who accompany You as Your disciples must certainly be just like You. So 
tell me about my most inner thoughts if You can.” 


[GGJ.n_02i,o6] I said: “Rael, it is not only known to you that the Messiah will 
not be king of the Jews, as they expect Him to be a very mighty and earthly war 
hero to subdue all nations and thus to possibly make every Israelite a little king to 
rule over so and so many slaves, but you also know that His Kingdom will consist 
of the fact that He will save souls and will bring them into His Kingdom of peace 
which is not of this world but which is established over there in the infinity. This 
is what the sage of Egypt - named Same - proved to you very precisely. 


[GGJ.n_02i,07] When at one time you were in the temple, now 22 years ago, you 
heard and saw how a 12 year old boy astonished everyone, not only by His 
wisdom but also by His miraculous power. You kept very quiet among the 
spectators and you were very surprised that those totally blind Pharisees and 
scribes did not notice who that boy was. The spirit let you know immediately that 
the expected Messiah was standing there alive before everyone’s eyes and that 
only the very thick pride and soul blindness of the Levites and scribes, who 
consider themselves educated, prevented to see the forest because of the trees. 


[GGJ.n_02i,o8] You also followed that boy when He grew up. You even tried to 
give work to His poor parents via your relations and did what was in your power. 
Although you said to yourself that where the deity lives your help would not be 
necessary but at least you wanted to show your good intentions. 


[GGJ.n_02i,09] Later, when you more and more were tied to your house 
because of your old age, so that you did not leave it in years, except for the short 
walks to your garden, you nevertheless always wanted to receive information 
from other people. 


[GGJ.n_02i,io] Now that 3 years ago a prophet has risen whose name is Jesus 
from Nazareth, no one but you knows best that this is the same boy. And no one 
but you in the whole of Israel is more convinced that Jesus is the Christ, the truly 
anointed One of God. But this most inner conviction you dare not to speak out for 
the reason you mentioned. Tell Me now if I spoke rightly.” 

Chapter 22. 

THE LORD SPEAKS ABOUT MERIT 

WHEN Rael heard about the 12 year old boy, he looked at Me more and more 
attentively, but said at first nothing after I finished My speech. But then he 
grabbed My hand, pressed it to his heart and, while he looked Me into the eyes 
with love, he said with an emotional voice: “Lord, then I did not wait for You in 
vain but my eyes did really see You. O loving Father, You are making Your bad 
servant so happy. Now You certainly will soon take away the heavy load of my 
body so that my spirit can fully stand in Your light and see Your great glory which 
is covered in the clothing of man. Only now I truly understand the words: ‘God is 
man, and the Son of Man rules the world. God has given His Son the power in 
Heaven and on Earth, and the nations can only be blessed through Him.’ 


[GGJ.11_022,02] These were a few of the teachings that were communicated to 

me and which were always misunderstood by the listeners. That is why they were 
reported to me to proof the incorrectness of the new teaching. 


[GGJ.ii_ 022,03] But it is completely clear here that God has truly become man 
in You and has given You all might - to You, His Son, as a physical man with a 
soul while Your personal initial Spirit is the Father. O Lord, by what did I deserve 
such great mercy that You sanctify my house so much by Your presence?” 


[GGJ.n_022,04] I said: “Rael, would you have wanted Me to walk by? What you 
last mentioned was unnecessary because I surely know who I visit and when I 
seek someone for his salvation. And there is certainly no question of merit, for I 
am not asking this, but I only go to the people because of the love that attracts 
Me. And once I am there, one should not ask this as some kind of earthly 
politeness, rather one should be happy that I came. 


[GGJ.n_022,05] I know very well the condition of your heart and that you really 
feel a great love for Me and great joy because I am here, but I prefer not to see 
when people, once they have recognized Me, ask for the actual reasons of My 
coming and are then considering it as a reward for some merit. 


[GGJ.n_022,o6] Look at My disciples here. What was their merit for always 
being near to them and for initiating them in all the secrets of the Heavens? I say 
to you: nothing. They love Me and that love binds them freely to Me personally. 

And if that love would cool off they also would freely turn away from Me to 

pursue things to which their love, that made them turn away from Me, would 

draw them. But in no case is there some merit involved which would make them ^ 

worthy to stay with Me. Therefore I have always said: ‘Come you all to Me who 

are tired and burdened, so that I can take away your burdens’. I desire nothing m 
else in return except that you love Me for that, and then I will invigorate you all. 
But whoever, despite his great burden of sins, will not come freely to Me, will 
never see My face, and he will certainly not gain a merit that would make Me 
come to him, not even by the most noble deeds without love in his heart. 


[GGJ.n_022,07] Look, I tell you all this, Rael, so that the last part of your 
philosophy, which commands you to gather merits to progress spiritually, will be 
placed in the right light, and so that you know that all merits without love for Me 
mean nothing. But we will leave it here.” 


Chapter 23 

THE WEALTH OF RAEL 


UPON this I strengthened Rael who felt terribly guilty within because of the 
apparent reproach, and at once he became glad again and his heart felt merely the 
joy of My presence, and all unnecessary feelings of guilt disappeared. 


[GGJ.n_023,02] At that same moment his body received the necessary strength 
to move without the help of his servants. And this feeling of strength that flowed 
through him gave him such great bliss that he again gave an eloquent testimony 
as to who I was and urged all those who were present to also praise Me. I told him 
not to do that, just like before, for the known reasons, and I invited everyone to 
visit the landed property of Rael that was worth seeing because this would inspire 
everyone. 


[GGJ.ii_023,03] Now we walked through the different rooms of the house which 
on the outside, at the side of the road, had nothing in common with the normal 
Jewish architecture, but seemed to have a complete Greek architecture from the 
inside, especially on the side of the garden that was closed to prevent nosy looks. 
One could see in the rooms a great number of Greek, Roman, Egyptian and 
Indian objects of art that were tastefully arranged and which gave the rooms a 
very special and cozy appearance so that many of My disciples, who never lived in 
such beautifully arranged rooms, could not stop looking around. It was not so 
much about the wealth there but the perfectly artful taste that was apparent 
everywhere and which gave a very harmonious impression. 
[GGJ.ii_ 023,04] The same could be observed in the garden that was completely 
arranged like a well maintained model garden, decorated with statues, fountains 
and green lanes, but because of the influence of the late autumn it looked 
considerably thinned out. My followers saw at Lazarus’ place also a nice and 
wealthy complex - the house as well as the environment - but the usefulness was 
clearly put forward there, but here it was only oriented towards artful beauty. 


[GGJ.n_023,05] Now there was a discussion going on, first among each other 
and then more in general, about the question whether, while pursuing spiritual 
goals, it was justified to Me to at the same time clearly ogle the world and its 
treasures, and whether it was not rather objectionable to surround oneself with 
such luxury that was obviously only meant as a lust for the eyes and could easily 
make the soul to fall asleep. Answering this question was the reason why I had 
invited My followers to look at the wealth of Rael who clearly had great joy that 
also I was attentively listening to him while he tried to emphasize the beauty of 
the separate, especially beautiful statues while praising the artful workmanship. 
My disciples were very surprised about this interest which was in direct 
contradiction with My former destruction of statues of idols which were also 
made with great workmanship. 


[GGJ.n_023,o6] When we were now standing before a statue of Apollo that was 
put in a recess in the wall that surrounded the garden, bordered by bushes and 
standing out against the dark background, there was no limit to their amazement, 
for they thought that this idol image, just like other idol images before, had to 
disintegrate into dust in My presence. 


[GGJ.n_023,07] It was even more shocking to them when we entered a small 
round construction where there was a whole collection of idols - all works of art 
of high quality which, by their positioning and tasteful arrangement, gave this 
temple-like space an unusually beautiful and exalted style. Especially for the 
former orthodox Jews those images were an abomination, because in the 
presence of Jupiter, Mars, Apollo, Venus, Minerva and Ceres and even Pluto, My 
presence seemed impossible to them. But the fact that I listened to the 
explanation of Rael who told Me the names of the artists that made the images as 
if this was completely unknown to Me, was completely beyond their 
understanding. However, they all felt that something special must be the basis of 
My strange behavior in this house, and they kept quiet, curious to know what 
would come after this exceptional interest of Mine. 


[GGJ.n_023,o8] When Rael had shown all his treasures, with explanations of 
origin and age, we came back in the hall and occupied our former seats. 


Chapter 24. 

EXPLANATION OF THE LORD ABOUT ART 


MY disciples expressed now openly their amazement about the special 
arrangement of the house and garden which nevertheless did not seem 
appropriate for a wise Jew so that Rael excused himself by pointing out that his 
many trips had often given him the opportunity to admire the workmanship of 
foreign nations, and that he only put a few examples in his house, regardless the 
fact that those objects represented the cult of the pagan gods. But he only 
admired the beauty and not the represented idea, or at least only as far as this 
would not be in conflict with his belief in one God. 


[GGJ.n_024,02] Now some reacted and said that this would be dangerous and 
could not be combined with the precepts of Moses who forbad associating with 
pagans and commanded to hold on to the old traditional customs. 


[GGJ.n_024,03] Finally Rael asked Me: “Lord and Master, please tell me if I 
was wrong to arrange my house the way You have seen now, and rest assured that 
I myself will be the first to destroy all these works of art at which my eyes rejoiced 
as soon as You will tell me that it is unjust.” 


[GGJ.n_024,04] I said to him: “Do not worry at all, for if it would be unjust 
everything would have been already destroyed. For where I am taking residence 
the unjust cannot exist for long. But you saw yourself that I shared your joy over 
these works of art and that I did not admonish you till now.” 


[GGJ.n_024,05] Now I turned to My disciples and continued: “But you, when 
will you judge rightly, not from yourselves but from My Spirit? You know that I 
am not pleased when you act according to certain rules for evaluation. Act and 
evaluate things according to the rules of the most inner, true spirit that is put in 
you, and do not think that what is contrary to your customs is also contrary to 
God. 


[GGJ.n_024,o6] God could very well allow to other nations what had to remain 
inadmissible to you to keep His people suitable for what is now present as a ripe 
fruit. But when the fruit is detached from the tree, it will depend on the tree to 
ripen a new one, for it became now strong enough so that it can do it without the 
help of the gardener and can progress on its own, for he did everything that was 
possible. But if the tree becomes lazy and slow, that same gardener will lay the 
axe at its roots. 


[GGJ.n_024,07] All the nations can be compared to a fruit tree which however 
always has to be treated differently depending on the typical character of the 
people. 


[GGJ.n_024,o8] Moses gave the laws to the Jews and gave and forbad severe 
precepts so that they should be involved with something different than the inner 
purpose of God’s Word. Whoever is called to preserve the spiritual kernel - not 
only for this Earth and its inhabitants but for the whole creation - must 
outwardly be well protected, for whoever strives for the outer cannot at the same 
time be the guardian of the key. 


[GGJ.n_024,09] Since all times the Jews had a hard and stubborn character. 
However, these are the qualities which made them suited to be the keepers of the 
Word of God so that it can be kept as intact as possible. Other nations, which did 
not have that characteristic had other callings, yet were not rejected by God. Just 
like hands and feet cannot be despised by man because they are not, like the 
heart, keepers of the most inner life, but are nevertheless also highly valued 
because without these organs his life would be very crippled. 


[GGJ.n_024,io] So if someone thinks that it is an abomination to God to live 
differently - spiritually or physically - compared to a people that are obviously 
under His clear leadership, is very wrong. In later times, when the distinction 
between the nations will disappear more and more, it will happen that the way of 
living of neighboring people will be different, yet they will be equally close to My 
heart. But no one will then be offended by the other. 


[GGJ.ii_024,ii] From this you can see that Rael can quietly live amidst his works 
of art and in his beautifully arranged house and at the same time be very dear to 
My heart, for he looks at all that without his heart being attached to it. He only 
looks with gratefulness at the spiritual ability that I put in man, developing such 
workmanship in him that it also can give joy to other people. 


[GGJ.n_024,i2] If he or someone else in this house would also somehow 
worship the statue of Jupiter or another deity, they would be destroyed, so that 
everyone would see here: there is only one God. But this is not the case. Rael and 
his cohabitants believe fully in Me and rejoice over all this, only rejoicing over the ^ 
pure art. ^ 


[GGJ.ii_ 024,13] Why would I destroy what was also indirectly created by Me? 
Because I created the ability for this in man, as long as he makes good use of it. 
For believe Me: everything that you call art is put in the heart of man by God for 
very wise reasons as you can easily imagine. 


[GGJ.n_024,i4] Just like an inferior animal, with only limited intelligence, 
cannot make a work of art through reasoning, so also man cannot do this when he 
does not try to develop his spiritual abilities. 


[GGJ.n_024,i5] You very well know that a civilized nation can more easily be 
evaluated by their works or art, for they give outwardly an image of what is 
reflecting in the soul of a people, in their feeling, thinking and acting. The more 
they make progress in freeing the soul of material pleasure the more perfect 
works of art they will be able to make. They can of course also use their works of 
art for every kind of sensuality. But then they will not make and exalted but a 
repulsive impression on the pure observer. 


[GGJ.n_024,i6] However, from the point of view of beauty, works of art can 
never be made if there is no ability in the soul of the artist to exalt himself to 
purer spheres, that means to look with his spiritual eye in order to make 
something himself. How he will give form to what he saw depends on his free will. 
But he only can progress in giving what is more and more perfect when he walks 
the ways that are righteous to Me. 


[GGJ.n_024,i7] Salomon could never have designed the temple if in his spirit he 
would not have been so free to see with his inner eye the reflection of a pure 
heavenly building, and according to that, make in the much admired temple a 
weak image of what is completely visible to everyone in My Kingdom. For neither 
on Earth nor in the Heavens can anything be created by human beings or spirits 
which cannot be found in fullness in God and thus also in His works. Wherever 
there is an image, there also must be a spiritual original. Just like when there is a 
shade there also must be an object that produces the shade. 

[GGJ.n_024,i8] But since God is infinite, and all the good, the beauty and the 
exalted is in Him, spiritually there also can never be an end to something more 
beautiful. 


Chapter 25 


THE HUMAN FORM AND ITS SALVATION 


GOD Himself wanted also to have a purpose, that means to establish a standard 
that is perfect in itself so that all lower and higher forms can be derived from it, 
and so He created the human form as a starting point for an ascending and 
descending line. 


[GGJ.n_25,02] When you look at the human form, you can derive the animal 
form from it, and when you look at the embryos of animal and human forms, in 
the initial stage they look completely the same, and they develop themselves 
according to the intelligence of their soul to become the creature that must exist. 
This initial similarity is however at the same time also proof that in every embryo 
there is a striving to reach the human form because otherwise it would not look 
the same. It is only hindered by the soul who is still not developed enough and 
who needs to take care of this development. 


[GGJ.n_25,03] In man lies now that form which the Greek artists knew already 
for a long time as what is most harmonious, that means that all his parts are built 
in equal proportions to one another. 


[GGJ.n_25,04] However, in that form, only the lines are indicated that must 
continue in order to effectively function as a body, and this means again: arms, 
legs, head and trunk stand in a right proportion to each other, which is the right 
one to maintain the body and which also corresponds to the feeling of the human 
soul. 


[GGJ.n_25,05] By observing the human body someone can easily determine 
whether a building is build too high, too wide or too small, which would not be 
possible if the form was not placed in him and which must also be the norm for 
other things and creatures. 


[GGJ.n_25,o6] In the purely spiritual world these forms develop themselves - 
depending on the further development of the soul - to a very precise harmony, so 
that the true beauty will only then become visible. Whoever is pure of spirit can 
by that radiate to such beauty that it would simply destroy you, because that 
beauty is only an expression of the most inner, purest perfection. 


[GGJ.n_25,07] But since the highest virtue according to God is, apart from love, 
humility, the spirits very often disregard that radiating appearance and hide that kO 
outer cover behind the cloak of loving humility, just like also I as God Myself have re- 
taken on the flesh of a human being, on the one hand to show the created beings 
the way they should go to free their souls and on the other hand also for a reason 
that lies in the salvation of the form, for which reason I also will be crucified. 


[GGJ.ii_25,o8] So you see that there is nothing wrong about rejoicing over 
beauty and the striving of the artists towards beauty, but that the feeling for all 
beauty can also be a standard of measurement for the development of the soul, on 
condition that this striving moves on the right path. Did you understand that?” 


[GGJ.ii_25,09] My disciples said: “Yes Lord and Master, this we do, although it 
sounds quite different from what we have heard from You up to now. But we can 
better understand now that matter and spirit are closely related.” 


[GGJ.n_25,io] Rael said to Me: “Lord and Master, You said that You will be 
crucified for the sake of the salvation of the form. How must this be understood? 
Not as if You really would suffer the death of a criminal at the cross?” 


[GGJ.ii_25,ii] I said: “My dear Rael, let this not worry you now, for you will be 
clearly instructed about this, but know only, since I came down to save mankind, 
that this salvation will not only happen spiritually but also very coarse materially, 
because, as the disciples just mentioned, matter and spirit are closely related and 
the first mentioned existed from the last mentioned. But the spirit is at the point 
of going to ruin. That is why matter must burst open and, in order to be saved, 
must become spirit again. And this is the salvation of the form which can only 
happen according to certain laws because otherwise the deity will have to destroy 
His creation as it is now while He wants to save and keep it. But, as said, we will 
leave it here. All this will become as clear as the sun to you, although not here, but 
on the other side in My Kingdom.” 


Chapter 26 

THE POWER OF LOVE 


On this Rael said: “Lord and Master, this promise fills me with great joy, for I 
know who gave it to me, and it will therefore certainly come true. That is why I 
will not ask further and leave everything up to Your love and mercy. 


[GGJ.n_26,02] But I suppose that it would be permitted to ask something else? 
You said that the sense of art is a standard of measurement for the spiritual 
progress of the nations, to such degree that it shows their spiritual 
understanding. The Greeks, and through them also the Romans, have certainly 
attainted to a high degree in the joy of making works of art, but it cannot be 
denied that their morals are not at the level of the pure, moral feeling. How can 
this be compatible with Your words?” 


[GGJ.n_26,03] I said: “I told you that man's open soul - making it possible for 
him to make things purely artistic - can also be wrongly directed. If the soul is 
capable to receive impressions, he can form them as he likes. But a purely animal- 
like human being will never be able to make an ideal work of art. Also the 
possibility to receive bad things depends on the openness of the soul. And from 
the moment that a sinner, who up to then threw himself with his bad love into all 
sensualities but took the courage by his will to destroy his bad love, can in the 
same measure come into the true love and be active. If this were not so, there 
would not be sudden repentances which you yourselves have seen in life while 
you were with Me, because what matters is always the power of love, whether it is 
bad or good. Its true nature will be immediately recognized from its works. 


[GGJ.n_26,04] This is why no one should condemn or scold his brother who is 
still imprisoned in bad love and who does bad works by its power, but rather feel 
only compassion for him and try to move him towards repentance through 
personal, righteous love, because the one who despises him does not know 
whether I will not send a strong stimulation of will to sustain him by which the 
one, who was apparently lost, would very quickly change his bad love into 133 
good love and will then stand before Me spiritually more justified than even the 
one who scold him. 


[GGJ.n_26,05] Would I make such great effort for the lost son if I did not know 
how big and all compassing his love is, that is now directed wrongly but that can 
again be directed towards Me? Only for the fact that this turnaround can for every 
fallen spirit or human being happen in an instant is why the Father does not curse 
His sons but rather pity them, invites them with love and even searches for them 
so that they can find the way to the House of the Father. 


[GGJ.n_26,o6] You can easily realize the measure of love and patience that is 
needed for that when you look at the enormous magnitude of the evils and 
immorality in the world that reached its peak precisely in this land, so that the 
divine love, as counterweight and stronger power, devours all that evilness and 
destroys it in itself. A little power cannot handle a stronger one in itself, at least 
not spiritually, but only a stronger one can embrace the weaker one and can 
finally lose it in itself without damage, and this is what happens. 



[GGJ.ii_ 26,07] For what concerns the Greeks and also the Romans, when those 
people will excessively use the spiritual qualities which they received, using them 
for their good life and stimulation of their sensuality, they will go to ruin as well. 
Admonitions at the right time will not lack, but when they will not care about 
them, such ulcer on the body will have to be burned away and often cut away in 
great pain so that the body can be preserved. 


[GGJ.n_26,o8] But I can tell you that the nations have up to now not found the 
stability in them to remain constantly pure in themselves. That stability can only 
be reached after slow discipline and difficult education. 


[GGJ.ii_ 26,09] However, I, Your teacher, came to the Earth to show them the 
best ways. And because I am the teacher and the sage of all worlds, the goal will 
certainly be reached, although along ways that a carnal human being will 
interpret incorrectly, but for someone who is already spiritually awakened in the 
flesh and for a purely spiritual person it will be easily understood.” 


[GGJ.n_26,io] On this, Rael said: “Lord, what you told us now is certainly very 
true and correct, and no one can doubt it, no matter how, because You, who are 
the Lord Yourself, declared it to us and have informed us Yourself. However, 
there is a special question that I often asked myself but could never find an 
answer, and that is: why are the Jews now actually the people that are called, and 
why actually did You come down precisely to this place? 


[GGJ.ii_26,ii] I myself as a Jew am certainly very glad that I am an offshoot of 
this favored people, but on the other hand, in my freethinking mind I cannot hide 
that nowadays it are precisely the Jews, despite the fact that they are expecting 
the Messiah, that are by far the ones who offer the most unsuited soil for the 
spreading of a spiritual teaching for the soul as You give it. The Romans and 
Greeks could be much more suitable for that because since already a long time 
they showed by their philosophy how much they are longing for something better 
than what their teaching about the gods can offer them. Also, a much faster 
spreading of Your teachings could be expected from Rome than from the 
stubborn Jerusalem. The Jews are probably only satisfied with a very exalted 
position of power - this is certainly what they want - and all the knowledge of the 
soul they sell for the price, to exchange Jerusalem for Rome. 


[GGJ.n_26,i2] In Your omniscience You certainly must have known this long 
before Your coming. What then is the actual reason why You nevertheless chose 
that ungrateful people?” 

Chapter 27 

SPIRITUAL AND WORLDLY PEOPLE 


I said: “Rael, I indeed knew how little influence My teaching would have here, 
and My words often confirmed that. But since, in My Spirit, which means as the 
Father in Me, I look much further than the times of this people, I can also 
precisely see that this is the only right way. The initial fundamental reason lies 
however in much deeper secrets of creation than you can imagine. And to explain 
that, I came here in your house, because all those who are now here near to Me 
are closely related to it and they must perceive already during their life whereto 
everything will lead, so that they will be able to continue to cultivate in the right 
way the field that I will assign to them. 


[GGJ.n_27,02] So listen: you know for already a long time that there are people 
who live an inner life, and people who strife outwardly and care little or not at all 
for the inner, the spirit, but are striving as much as possible to play a glorious role 
in front of their fellow men. 


[GGJ.ii_ 27,03] When you consider this, you must recognize that there is a 
striving to the outer and a striving to the inner - spiritual people and worldly 
people. Both strivings have, since they are present and therefore established by 
the Spirit of God, a middle point where the two kinds touch each other and which 
are to Me, the Father, justified. Both strivings can however also distance 
themselves from that middle point, or better: from the point of rest of My 
creation, and so become entangled in wrong things. 


[GGJ.n_27,04] As long as both strivings are justified to Me they can be 
compared to a fruit that carries the viable seed in itself, and around it, the 
covering that is feeding, tasteful and nourishing for man. However, every fruit 
shows firstly the outer form that stimulates to eat, and only a smart person knows 
how to gather and plant the inner seed, and cultivate in this manner, with 
difficulty and work, new fruit bearing trees and bushes. 


[GGJ.n_27,05] Look, as nature teaches you how physical man has to be fed, it is 
the same with spiritual man. A fruit has to be created that gives seed and eatable 
food. But since that food is not only for man but also for the whole universe, 
separate ways have to be followed, and since man received also a free will, they 
can distance themselves from the right point of creation from which both O 
directions were set out. You will much better understand this by what follows. 


[GGJ.ii_27,o 6] The first man, who was created in such a way that he carried in 
himself, in the right balance, as it were the seed as well as the food, was Adam. He 
was not the first man in every respect, but the first man who was destined - out 
of free, personal urge - to care for the kernel of My Word in himself, to multiply 
and to freely pass it on. He was the first free human being and by that he had in 
himself the possibility to creatively develop himself. To all other human beings 
before only the limited power in Me was given which they however could not 
utilize as such out of themselves like Adam. That is why they only stood in the 
wisdom that was given to them, but not in the love which they freely had to 
develop in themselves. 


[GGJ.n_27,07] Now the descendants of Adam developed themselves to the outer 
and to the inner. To the outer those who were destined to become the large 
number of embodied beings who - enclosed in the flesh - had to absorb the food 
that envelops and hides the seed in order to become independent. That means: to 
learn from those who formed the most inner stem and who preserved the 
teaching, and then to be able to warm themselves in the love - everyone 
according to his own character. 


[GGJ.n_27,o8] Because all human beings who are living are already present as 
created spirits, and they thus do not come into being as completely newborn in 
the spirit as you know. The purpose of their covering with a material body is 
however solely that they would not reach their free individual destiny out of 
wisdom in which they were created since the very beginning, but out of love that 
is now embodied in Me. This goal cannot be reached if the inner seed of life is 
lacking, which always has to be protected in a very artful manner against every 
destruction. 


[GGJ.ii_27,09] Now, from that little stem, which is destined to form the seed, 
only few existed from Adam and were preserved in the Jewish people. All the 
other nations can more or less be considered as the outer fruit to serve as food for 
those who, from the big receptacle of first spirits, want to go the way of the flesh. 
Once they are covered in the flesh, those first spirits must lose every memory of 
their former existence, so that they can develop themselves freely and will not, 
driven by the consciousness of a former life, take it into consideration. If the 
latter would happen, wisdom and not love would be the motive for their 
development. Wisdom deliberates, love acts only according to faith and feeling. 


[GGJ.n_27,io] So now you know that the Jewish people are to be compared to 
the seed of a fruit, but let it be understood: not the individual Jews as such but 
only the principle, the spirit that lived into the minds and raised the people, but 
this is now also for the souls almost completely lost. 


Chapter 28 

THE DEVELOPMENT OF THE JEWISH PEOPLE 


As long as a people stands on the right point of the direction that strives to the 
outer, it is also good to Me, and they will therefore be a strong and mighty people, 
as for instance the Romans now who rule the Earth. 


[GGJ.n_28,02] Now you are surprised and you think: ‘How is it possible that a 
people can be good according to God while they do not even believe in God but 
believe in many gods?’ 


[GGJ.ii_ 28,03] Well I say to you that it does not matter for the moment how it is 
named as long as the inner perception of the heart, with which the rulership of 
the deity is recognized and loved, is true and real. 


[GGJ.n_28,04] If for instance a Roman, who firmly adheres to his pagan belief, 
who honors the gods and makes effort to live the right way of life, full of justice 
and abhors evil, according to his conscience and the awe for the almighty, highest 
forces, will he, who strived for the true virtues, be damned because he believed in 
Jupiter or Minerva? Certainly not. And it will be easy to teach him about the one 
God, because his being only wants the gods that he worshipped up to then, 
namely to practice and to strive for moral perfection, as you have noticed 
yourselves with many Romans. 


[GGJ.ii_ 28,05] Therefore, I say to you: always look at the heart of a person, and 
let it first of all make no difference to you how that person expresses his love for 
God. 


[GGJ.n_28,o6] Rome became mighty because the Roman laws are the best soil 
that can be laid for My coming Kingdom. And as long as the Romans are striving 
to act accordingly, they also will remain what they are. 


[GGJ.n_28,07] The people who strive to the outer will therefore be also trained 
in the right willpower and toughness of the body. The people who strive to the 
inner possess more the toughness and the firmness to hold on to what has been 
given since ancient times, which you can well notice when you compare the 
Romans and the Jews with each other. 


[GGJ.n_28,o8] This is also why the Romans are a conquering people, inclined to 
expand ever further. The Jews are a people of preservation, and they consider it 
even punishable to go beyond the traditional borders. However, by this closing up 
to the outer, the Jewish people were also raised with difficulty to preserve the 
inner kernel. 


[GGJ.n_28,09] And with that same toughness by which they kept the precepts of 
Moses up to now, which are however overgrown by much stuff of words but 
which are nevertheless true and real in itself, they would keep My new Word in 
the same way if however they would accept it. Through this education of 
thousands of years they are very well capable to recognize the truth of My 
teaching. But now they also left the right middle point and instead of remaining 
keepers of the seal they became stubbornly hard and inaccessible for the renewal, 
this out of laziness that came instead of the virtue of perseverance. 


[GGJ.n_28,io] Other nations that strive outward will later act in the same way, 
but then oppositely, because to go out to propagate, easily loses itself in 
changeability, instability and sensual lust. 


[GGJ.ii_28,ii] Once a standpoint has been reached that showed that the middle 
way is the golden one, the nations in later years will also prefer to take that way 
and will no more go on another way, as will happen now and also later. As many 
billions of such and such first spirits will be released who will have taken the way 
of the flesh, a whole different relation will exist between the spirit world and the 
human beings, because the more spirits who will have finished the way of the 
flesh the more their influence will be on those who as human beings want to 
accomplish their change from the sphere of wisdom to the sphere of love. 


[GGJ.ii_ 28,12] Then there will be a tremendous pushing of those who also have 
the intention to accomplish the way and some kind of care of those who already 
have gone the way. Hand in hand with that pushing, an increase will and must 
take place of the human race, for the number of scholars will increase more and 
more and there is no other school than this Earth. 


[GGJ.n_28,i3] Since the latter is a fact, I could not come down anywhere else 00 

than precisely here, and again nowhere else than among the Jewish people who 
carry in their law and their progressing development the grains of seed that solely 
develop the freedom of spirit and will. But since this seed was in danger of drying 
up and of becoming unfruitful by the too great stubbornness of this people, I 
came Myself and I awaken and fertilize it to a greater ability to produce new 
flourishing life. 


[GGJ.n_28,i4] Whether the Jewish people can still claim to perform their task as 
defender and keeper of the seal, also of this new teaching, will depend on them. 
But even if they remain stubborn and will not recognize Me, they will still remain 
the chosen people of God because of their years of schooling. And they can at all 
times, also in the coming thousands of years, find the way to the House of the 
Father just like the lost son, and they will also be accepted. But great disasters will 
be necessary before they will turn back, and they still will have to tend pigs in 
foreign places for a long time. 


[GGJ.n_28,i5] I know that every effort with this people will be useless, and they 
also will be able to do the most extreme to Me, so that no one can say that signs 
were lacking by which a prophet makes himself known. But even the greatest sign 
will accomplish nothing here. That is why, after Me, the time will come when no 
work will be done by signs anymore but only by the Word, as I am speaking it to 
you now, which will awaken much more faith than compelling miracles. 


[GGJ.n_28,i6] Now you know why the Jews are the chosen people and why such 
great things are happening here. The only thing that is left to do is to tell why 
steps were not taken to prevent these apparent failures - why it was allowed that 
really no equally, calm way of development can take place. 


Chapter 29 

THE PEOPLE OF THE FUTURE 


If no storms would rage over the Earth and an even temperature and current 
would exist everywhere, the whole Earth would soon crumble and crack, for only 
through heavy storms and earthquakes can a strong lifework take place, a 
refreshment that becomes visible in the reviving air after a storm. 


[GGJ.ii_ 29,02] If you would make minimal body movements, always exposing it 
to an even temperature, avoiding everything that is unpleasant, then there will 
soon be a decline of the forces that you are not using, and together with that a 
decline of the body. And when this can happen to the body, then how much more 
to the soul who will always dream in the same unattractive existence without 
being stimulated, for it is only the soul that lives, not the body. In order to feel the 
joys of life and work he must have work to do. By the work he acquires knowledge 
and experiences joy over what he has done. Materially, this work expresses itself 
as a fight for the weak against the strong, spiritually however, in the knowledge 
and in the increase of love. 


[GGJ.n_29,03] As God is infinite in His being, also the spirit can grow infinitely. 
However, that growth brings about the existence and perishing of earthly nations 
while the perishing of the bodies does not matter, for only the souls must grow, 
the body is perishable. 


[GGJ.n_29,04] Like a very noble plant that existed slowly from a much less 
noble kind by diligently taking care of it and by cutting off all the wild shoots, this 
is also how the people of the future will grow, only by slowly taking care of them 
after first removing a lot of rampant wild seedlings. They will be one flock, led by 
only one Shepherd, and that will be Me. 


[GGJ.ii_29,05] To accomplish that work, and also the great salvation of the 
worlds, is the goal of My incarnation which will however have to begin with every 
individual, not with the big mass of people, for also the ocean is made up of 
separate drops. If one wanted to extract the salt from it, only a small quantity is 
taken out, the salt removed and kept in a container which is suitable for that 
saltless water - a work that seems useless but it will finally lead to the goal when 
one has eternities at his disposal. Did you understand what is said by My words?” 


[GGJ.n_29,o6] Rael and also the disciples said: “Yes Lord, we think that we have 
fully understood You, as far as this is possible, although we think that there are 
still many things that can be learned from Your words, which You did not speak 
out but which can nevertheless be concluded from them. This will become clearer 
to us in later times when also the words that You now spoke to us will be 
completely assimilated.” 


[GGJ.n_29,07] I said: “Dear friends, I read in your minds the question: which 
people can take the place of the people of the Jews in case they will not meet the 
expectations? This is indeed the case as you know, for otherwise I would not have 
predicted the destruction of the city of Jerusalem so many times. You ask because 
you do not know that there is another nation that went through a somewhat 
similar schooling as the people of Israel. 

[GGJ.ii_29,o 8] Well, I will also answer that. God, the all-knowing One, is never 
that unwise to build His work on only one support, but He always builds it on 
several supports to take care that His building that He puts down would not 
collapse in one night in case the worm would gnaw at one of the supports. So also 
the work of salvation stands on a lot of save supports so that it must succeed, 
even when the enemy would try with all power to prevent it. 


[GGJ.n_29,09] Here on Earth there are several nations that can qualify to serve 
as seal keepers of the New Word instead of the Jews, because the Old Word will 
from now on be guarded all the more anxiously by the old guardians as more and 
more afflictions will befall on them. And even when the Jews will be scattered 
over the whole Earth, they will all the more firmly hold on to the old belief, 
because this, and the hope for the restoration of their former, lost fame is the only 
anchor by which they can be saved from total downfall and destruction of which 
they will be well aware. 


[GGJ.n_29,io] However, My New Word needs also seal keepers, this means: a 
people from whose midst always new teachers can arise who can clean the 
teaching that became somewhat swampy, and change the swampy water into a 
clear stream. For just as the Jews matured slowly, so also that people can only 
mature slowly. And just as the Jews had to endure captivity because of their sins 
and fell into idolatry, so also the people of the future will, for the sake of their 
maturing, fall into similar mistakes - yes they can and shall fall into exactly the 
same ones. Just as I awakened prophets among the Jewish people, also prophets 
will arise there and purify the pure teaching from the Heavens of all additions. 


[GGJ.ii_29,ii] However, this people is as good as totally unknown to you now, 
but in time they will arise with great force and will smash to pieces everything 
that is rotten and useless, for they are mighty in their still intact natural force. 
The same teachers that came down here as My servants will also come back again 
there, partly in the flesh, partly in the spirit, and they will testify of Me with great 
enthusiasm and all-conquering force, as they testified of Me up to now. And I will 
be invisible at their side and lead them. 


[GGJ.n_29,i2] But then, once that people will also have reached such a height 
that foreign kings are afraid that they will possess the Earth, like the Romans 
now, a time will come with full of surprises for the nations on Earth. For not that 
people will be the middle point, but a new people will arise that will be formed 
from the most noble generations of all people. These will conquer the world with 
My power. And peace and unity will and must then rule over all nations and 
peoples. And amidst that new people, salvation will be born that will need neither 
king nor law but only this: ‘Love God above all and your fellow man as yourself.’ 


[GGJ.ii_ 29,13] And you, My faithful followers will be co-workers of this new 
material and spiritual kingdom. That is why you are gathered here, namely to 
hear already in your first earthly days from My mouth for what purpose I am 
calling you. For all those who are for you now invisible and who will also be 
workers for the bliss of this Earth - and through this Earth, the universe and the 
spiritual kingdom - are also present. And they rejoice over you as co-workers of 
the work that has started. But you will see them, 143 those great legions that are 
necessary to make the work prosper.” 


[GGJ.ii_ 29,14] After these words I opened for all those who were present their 
spiritual sight, and they saw all prophets and angels of My Heavens who came in 
a most friendly manner near to them and they talked with them about My latest 
revelations. 


Chapter 30 
REGARDING DYING 


This scene lasted for about one hour, and all those who were present asked every 
possible question to the spirits who answered them in a very friendly way. Then I 
called John the Baptist and Elijah to Me, whom those who were present knew 
only in the personality of the Baptist. And I said loudly in the presence of all: “You 
have been My predecessor in this great time of My coming to the people, and you 
will again be My predecessor when that great time will arise about which I have 
spoken. But the people will not recognize you then, despite that you will know 
who you actually are, because that last temptation in the flesh that you can expect 
will become the foundation for the building of the dawning kingdom of peace. 


[GGJ.n_30,02] The people at the time of your next life will care little about your 
word, but it will be written in their soul with burning letters so that they will 
nevertheless feel it when they will be free of their body. That word of you will be 
My Word, and I will demand an account of everyone who heard it but despised it. 


rGGJ.11 30,031 But you, My loved ones and faithful ones who are gathered 
around Me and are surprised about the things that clearly happen now before 
your eyes, will form the tribe of those who will form the new elect people, and you 
yourselves will contribute to its foundation in My name as a great brotherhood 
that draws strength from My Spirit to perform great deeds. 

rGGJ.11 30,04! And so, I let you go now to make a start by which the lost son will 
be forced to come back home after he did not want to listen to the calling voice of 
the Father. Amen.” 


rGGJ.11 30,05] After these words, the heavenly inhabitants disappeared, and we 
were alone again like before in Rael’s big dining hall. Those who belong to Me sat 
for a long time as if stunned by the glory of what they had seen, for they never 
looked so deep into the secrets of the heavens before and they never again 
received such sight during their physical life. But this happened to keep their 
souls strong, also without miracles which I performed exclusively among them 
and not in public. This last deep vision was meant to be an unerasable imprint 
and remain a guideline for the rest of their life as well as for their further life 
without material body in My Kingdom. 


[GGJ.n_30,o6] We went now quietly and partook of the evening meal in silence. 
Rael showed everyone the most comfortable places to sleep which were prepared 
at different places in his house, and he finally asked Me to allow him to have a 
private conversation. 


rGGJ.ii 30,07! I said: “It was not you but I who inspired you to express this wish 
so that you can still receive more information that is only necessary for you to 
know.” 


rGGJ.ii 3 Q,o 81 Then I followed him to his privately located room while the 
others were going to rest. 


rGGJ.ii 30 , 0 Ql When we were alone, Rael said to Me: “Lord and Master, I am a 
sinful man who is not worthy that You sanctify this house with Your feet. But I 
also know that You are extremely merciful and that You certainly will forgive all 
the foolish things that I have done up to now in my life if I really ask You with all 
my heart. Therefore, I ask You, Lord and my God, in the first place for the 
following: please do not take into account the great weakness that I had up to 
now, and forgive me for all the sins that I, consciously or unconsciously, have 
committed.” 


rGGJ.ii 3 Q,iol I said: “Rael, all your sins have been forgiven for already a long 
time, for I am not a God of punishment but of love. Then how can I punish 
someone for something when he - as in your case - is very serious with such 
request as you have expressed yourself now? But I came into the world to destroy CO 
the great burden of sins which the people, in their great blindness, have loaded 
upon themselves, and to free up for them the ways to the greatest happiness. 


[GGJ.ii_30,ii] So do not worry anymore about your sins which you only 
committed in a former time and which will follow you at your departure from this 
Earth as evil works as well as the good ones. They are consumed by My love. But 
tell now, what more suppresses you, for you have a special request why you 
privately wanted to speak with Me.” 


rGGJ.il 30,12! Rael said: “Lord and Father, I thank You from the deepest of my 
heart for Your words. I am all the more filled now with the wish that inspired me 
since I met You. Look, I am old, my body is fragile and not very suitable anymore 
for the accommodation of this soul. It is the hope that I still could see the chosen 
One of God that kept this tired body still standing, and now that this hope is 
fulfilled, I ask You, Lord and Father: let Your servant go in peace into the grave so 
that in Your Kingdom, that I have seen now with my carnal eyes, he can become a 
more useful instrument than he still can be in this physical life. If I could go away 
before Your eyes, I certainly will not taste death and enter safely and peacefully 
into the Kingdom that You promised us.” 


rGGJ.n 30 ,i. 3 l I said: “Rael, this wish rested in your heart for already a long 
time, and that is why you had to speak it out so that your soul would also be 
delivered from this last pressure. The others, who are sleeping now, are by far not 
mature enough to hear what you should know. 


rGGJ.n 30,14! Look, what actually means the death of man? Nothing else but 
the ripe fruit that falls from the tree, and this falling off happens also by itself 
without special help of the fruit. When a person has matured in his inner being, 
so much so that he can be considered a ripe fruit, the releasing of the ripe soul 
from the trunk - the body - will also happen without any force. He who lived 
according to My will, for him that moment will come in such a way that also 
without My presence he will glide over from the earthly to the spiritual life, 
completely without pain. Yes, even with the most joyful feelings. 


[GGJ.ii_ 30,15] But despite that you are not really attached to life, you still have 
some kind of worry for that moment to come, and you think that it will be the 
easiest for you to get over this unpleasant turning point when you can be 
strengthened by My presence. But I say to you now that you also should lay down 
this forgivable human weakness so that your faith, which kept you alive up to now 
and let you attain to this old age, will be fully strong, because the faith in Me is 
actually the best and only way to conquer all threatening terrors of death. 

[GGJ.ii_30,i 6] Once man has become fully believing, and when I have laid into 
his heart that it is his time to loosen the bands of his flesh because he finished his 
earthly task, I will even give him the power to break those bands himself, and 
then he will softly doze away in peace before the eyes of those who are his own. 


rGGJ.n 30471 This is how death should be but as it only can happen in the 
rarest of cases because men fear the moment that they are called away more than 
anything else and their transition is not caused by the normal deterioration but 
by violently destroying the physical machinery. The wrong life has therefore also 
brought about the many sicknesses which should have nothing to do with the 
actual death because not these sicknesses should determine the transition of the 
soul but the complete ripeness of the soul. 


rGGJ.n 30,18! So, My Rael, do not consider this as if I am refusing your wish 
when I say to you: continue to live for a short time. Do not consider this as a 
punishment but train yourself to also wipe out your last remaining connection of 
what is earthly, and then to unite with Me and enter My Kingdom.” 


rGGJ.n 30 ,iq 1 Rael said: “Yes Lord. As always, You are also completely right in 
this, and I will shut up my foolish wish in myself in order to become worthy of 
Your entire love. I will destroy this foolish fear, and I almost believe that I already 
succeeded in this through this conversation with You. 


[GGJ.n_30,20] But how must I understand this: to be united with You I should 
enter Your Kingdom? What, 0 Lord, do You mean? Will You also leave this 
Earth?” 


[GGJ.n_30,2i] I said: “Certainly, as soon as the work is finished. The Jews will 
receive power over My body and will kill it. And on that day I Myself will lead you 
into My city that is built in the Heavens instead of Jerusalem that will be 
destroyed here on Earth while it could have been a city of the cities if its 
inhabitants would only have wanted it and would not have become so wicked. 
Then I will rule the world from there, and My faithful ones will live with Me 
within the sacred walls that will be built by My life on this Earth and by which the 
work of My hands provided the building stones, piece by piece. But enough of this 
now. You will be with Me a citizen of that city, and soon your spirit will clearly 
visualize what I can only point out to you now.” 
[GGJ.ii_ 30,22] But, My Rael, let your body now also receive the necessary rest 
because tomorrow is another day on which still many things can be discussed.” 


[GGJ.n_30,23] Rael listened to this advice and went to rest while I returned to 
those who belong to Me and I spent the night on a place to sleep that was 
prepared. 


Chapter 31 
A DAY OF REST 


Early in the morning we got up from our beds - very timely as usual - and we 
went immediately outside into the garden of Rael. The mornings were very rough, 
especially around sunrise because the rainy time had to start soon, but they were 
nevertheless very refreshing so that it was pleasant to be outside for some time. 


rGGJ.il 31,02! If people would make a habit to get up early, especially in the 
summer, and spend the early morning hours outside, mankind would soon 
become much stronger than they are now, because the strengthening currents 
that draw through the sky, especially during the early morning winds, bring 
particularly the nutrients to the Earth. And, through the interaction of light and 
the developing warmth it also produces the special nutritional elements for soul 
and body and work quite differently under a high sun and higher temperatures 
and also brings about a special chemical process by which they become more 
coherent and not so well absorbable anymore for man compared to the more 
etheric condition of the early morning. 


[GGJ.n_3i,03] My disciples were still enthusiastically discussing with each other 
about the visions which they saw yesterday, and they also related about their 
unusual dreams which almost every one of them experienced, but they did not 
ask Me a special question about these things. Soon also Rael joined us and kindly 
invited us to partake of the morning meal that was prepared. This we did, and 
they soon became all really cheerful and the otherwise very serious men used 
many joking words. 


rGGJ.11 31,04! Now I said to those that belong to Me that I planned to rest today 
and that everyone who wanted could look around in the village to see if there was 
an opportunity for a good work or to speak a word of comfort. Every one of them 
was free to do what seemed right to him. 

rGGJ .11 31,05! On this invitation, Philippus said: “Lord, if You do not mind I 
would like to visit a man who is very precious to me and who, as far as I know, 
should still be living here. He is a zealous teacher of the Word of God and did 
already a lot of good works with the little means which life gave him. He is a 
relative of mine of second degree, and if it is possible to win him for You, I will 
bring him to You.” 


[GGJ.n_3i,o6] I said: “Do so, and bring Me this little fish, so that he also will 
realize what he is still lacking. I will not leave this house, and each one of you will 
find Me here again if he will seek Me.” 


rGGJ .11 31,07! Then they all left the garden and the house except John, Peter 
and James, and they spread in and around the village. Many of them returned 
only in the evening because they were very well received by the poor population, 
and the people asked many questions about My Being, My origin and deeds, and 
they all answered them truthfully. I wanted this to happen so that firstly several 
of My followers and disciples, who up to now did not find the opportunity to 
spread My Word, would practice their work, and secondly to also awaken the 
population for the coming feast of Easter and the events that will happen on that 
occasion. 


rGGJ.ii 31,08! However, the 3 apostles stayed close to Me and kept silent. So I 
asked them if they did not want to follow the others, on which John answered 
that he and his brother would do that if it would be My wish but that they 
otherwise would stay. 


rGGJ.ii 3i,0Ql I said: “Dear friends, if you want to stay, then stay, for I already 
said that everyone should do as pleases him. But if you think that you will still 
experience something in My presence which you otherwise would have missed, 
then you are mistaken. For I will not undertake anything today as I have said, and 
I only plan to keep a day of rest, for also this body needs its rest from time to 
time, just like yours, and it is in no way different from your body. We have 
worked a lot lately, and also My body is therefore somewhat exhausted, even 
though My Spirit is active everywhere. But as long as this body has not been taken 
up by the Spirit that has to permeate it and enclose it as a garment, it is also 
subjected to all demands just like your bodies.” 


rGGJ.ii 31,10! Then also these 3 disciples left Me alone so that the rest that I 
wanted would not be disturbed, and they also tried to prevent too much noise in 00 
the house, for it could perhaps penetrate into the garden because there was a 
great hustle and activity among the many unexpected guests which was in 
contrast with the quietness to which we were used to up to then. This time I did 
not support the various house activities with My power because all the 
inhabitants were glad to take care of Me and of those who belong to Me, and their 
true joy should not be restricted. 


[GGJ.ii_3i,n] So nothing really special happened that day that was worthy to 
write down. Late in the afternoon Philippus came back with his relative whom 
he brought to Me and who wanted to be instructed about the Messiah. But at this 
time I did not engage into a long conversation with him but send him to My 
disciples who initiated him in My teaching and who told him more about My 
deeds. So he became believing and I blessed him and his house when he asked Me 
for it, to the great joy of Philippus who appreciated him very much. 


rGGJ.n 31,12! All those who belong to Me came back in the evening and 
reported about their different experiences that mainly consisted in helping the 
inhabitants in My name, relieving them from all kinds of sicknesses which led 
them to faith, namely: that I was really the One who was sent by God and that 
they were My true disciples. 


rGGJ.n 3i,i.3l After the many stories, which do not have to be mentioned here, I 
said: “Blessed are you, My beloved ones, for it was only by your faith that you 
were able to accomplish such works, for you only performed them by that power, 
not by the coercion of Mine. So continue to work independently and with your 
own deeds so that the flock will not be scattered when once the Shepherd will not 
be there anymore.” 


Chapter 32 

THE DEATH OF LAZARUS 


Then the evening meal was finished I told those who belong to Me that I intended 
to leave very early in the morning, going deeper into Judea towards Jerusalem. 


rGGJ.n 32,02] The disciples who were more close to Me were frightened for My 
sake, and they whispered among each other, till Peter turned to Me, because he 
made himself the spokesman for the others, and said: “Lord and Master, each 
time the Jews in Jerusalem wanted to stone You when You spoke to them, and 
now You want to go to them again?” 


 


[GGJ.ii_ 32,03] On this, I answered: “Are there not 12 hours in a day? Can 
anyone stumble when he walks during the day and stands completely in the light? 
I am standing completely in the light and know when My hour will come. So do 
not worry about Me. However, he who walks at night while it is dark around him 
and in him will soon stumble and can easily go to ruin. For you know that no one 
has power over Me unless I give it to him.” 


rGGJ.11 32,04! Then the disciples were no more worried about My plan, and I 
further said to them: “You know that our friend Lazarus is sick and that his sisters 
sent someone out to Me. Would I now not grant their request out of fear of the 
Jews?” 


rGGJ.11 32,03! John asked Me: “Lord, You know about everything. How is our 
friend Lazarus?” 


rGGJ.11 32,o61 1 answered: “He sleeps, but I will go to him to wake him up.” 


[GGJ.n_32,07] Then the disciples thought among themselves that I spoke 
about the physical sleep, and said: “Lord, if he sleeps, his sickness will soon leave 
him, because nothing is better than a healthy sleep for a sick person to bring back 
his strength.” 


[GGJ.n_32,o8] I answered: “You are right about this, but you still are mistaken, 
for Lazarus does not sleep the sleep of the body, but he died.” 


rGGJ.11 32,oq1 The disciples were startled about this statement, moreover 
because it was not so long ago that they saw Lazarus fit and healthy. A loud 
murmuring of condolence arose among them and finally fearful questions 
whether it still would be possible to help, because he only might be apparently 
dead, and if My power would awaken him. 


rGGJ.11 32,10! I said: “Lazarus is dead and rests in his grave for a long time 
already, but I nevertheless will wake him up. That is why I stayed so long here so 
that no one could say that he did not really die, and so that by this last open sign 
that I will perform, the weak minds will become completely believing. I am glad 
now for your sakes that I was not present and that the Father in Me commanded 
Me to act this way so that you and still many more people will believe. And that is 
why we will go to Bethany tomorrow.” 


rGGJ.11 32,ill Now they all were satisfied. 


[GGJ.ii_ 32,12] Except Thomas, who was often plagued by doubts, and who, 
despite his belief in My word was still very afraid for the Pharisees and Jews, and 
he said to his brothers: “Let us go with Him anyway to die together if the Jews 
would lay their hands on Him.” 


rGGJ .11 32,131 But James rebuked him for those words and indicated that no 
one had any power over Me up to now despite the many attempts. Then also 
Thomas was satisfied with this, and so there was a great silence in the group 
because everyone was busy with his own thoughts. 


rGGJ.ii 32,14] Now I advised those who belong to Me to go to rest since great 
efforts would be required from us the next day, and soon everyone was looking 
for his place to sleep and they took the necessary rest. 


rGGJ.ii 32,13! We stood up early in the morning and prepared ourselves for the 
further trip. Rael came to Me with tears in his eyes and wanted, just like the 
others, to follow Me. 


rGGJ.ii 32,16! But I told him that he should stay, and said: “Rael, it will not be 
long anymore, and then you will be able to stay with Me forever. So prepare 
yourself to follow later and do as I already told you. These ones here, who follow 
Me, still have a great work to do in My name during their lifetime. But you 
already fulfilled it, and therefore you are justified before Me, also without 
following Me now physically, which I often required and about which you have 
heard.” 


rGGJ.ii 3 2,17! Now also Rael calmed down at these words and said lovingly 
goodbye to Me and to those who belong to Me. 


Chapter 33 

THE CAUSE OF LAZARUS’ DEATH 


NOW we quickly walked on the road that led us to Bethany to cover the distance 
as fast as possible. 


LD 

00 


85 


 



 


 


[GGJ.ii_ 33,02] We had to make a detour to reach that place because I did not 
intend to go via Jerusalem but wanted to come unseen in Lazarus’ house which 
was, according to the Jewish measurements, 15 field ways 1 away from it. But 
Bethany was not located on the place of the present village El Azarije 2 , but more 
to the east, so that we did not arrive from the west side of the Olive Mountain but 
from the east side. 


[GGJ.n_33,03] The distance of 15 field ways was measured from the courtyard of 
the temple where a pillar as a Roman milestone was set up. You can find such 
marking stones in smaller villages still today. One could cover these 15 field ways 
in 1 V2 hour by walking easily till. Bethany was reached from the just mentioned 
point. 


1 See GGJ vol. io_i93,5 (Book 24; 75:5.) 

2 El Azarije or Eizariya. It is believed that this is the place where Bethany was 
formerly located. It was named Lazarion in the 4th century 


rGGJ. 11 33,04! From this, an archeologist can more easily determine on that 
spot as to where the real Bethany was located. But apart from a waste region and 
apart from stones and bushes he will nowadays find nothing more on the spot 
where I performed the last and unmistakably greatest sign for the Jews. 


rGGJ. 11 33,031 As already known, Lazarus was one of the richest men of the 
whole of Judea, and since he died without having direct heirs, according to the 
law of the temple one third of his total fortune belonged to the temple while his 
sisters, who had no male family protection - Lazarus did not have any close 
relatives - came under the supreme rulership of the temple, which practiced in 
such cases a very unpleasant guardianship. The Pharisees and the Jews of the 
temple were already for a long time very eager for the rich possessions of Lazarus 
and, as known, they thought about all kinds of tricks and plots to grab Lazarus 
into their fingers in order to possibly take the whole rich inheritance into their 
hands. They did not expect too much difficulty to handle his 2 sisters. 


rGGJ. 11 33,061 But Lazarus rejected all claims and deals that were rudely 

brought forward and he often was so offended by the enforcing manner of the 

temple rabble that I advised him to lay off his hot-temperedness because it could 

have bad consequences for him. He followed My advice as he was able and he also 

became much more peaceful at the time when I gave him those dogs because he kO 

was not so often disturbed anymore. 

M 

ns 

Cu 


86 



 


 


[GGJ.ii_ 33,07] But now shortly before his dead he was again in conflict with the 
members of the temple who accused him because he apparently lacked the 
necessary respect for the temple, and this went so far that he violently chased 
away the members of the temple who came to him with the best of soul-caring 
intentions and he even held back his personnel from visiting the temple and from 
making the necessary offerings of penance and purification. 


[GGJ.n_33,o8] The temple servants knew that these and similar lies were 
unfounded, as well as the attempts to make him suspicious to the Romans as a 
friend of Jesus, the agitator of the people, but they still counted on the hot- 
temperedness of his character by which he might carelessly expose himself at 
possible hearings. Then it would be possible to bind him to the temple so that he, 
in order to be set free, would at least have to make big promises concerning his 
inheritance. 


rGGJ.il 33,oq1 Lazarus perceived those cunning plans very well and 
contradicted the accusations to the Roman governor with authority, so that he 
went free, without showing any visible outer excitement. 


[GGJ.n_33,io] But it all the more was cooking internally in him so that he 
caught an acute inflamed gall fever that killed him in a very short time. This was 
the outer cause for his death. The inner one, purely spiritual, was already 
mentioned by the answer that I gave to the helper and also by the words to My 
disciples. 


Chapter 34 

THE ARRIVAL IN BETHANY 


When we came near Bethany, that same helper, who talked to Me before, came to 
meet us and said with tears in his eyes that his master had died the same day he 
was sent out and that he rested in his grave for already four days. 


[GGJ.ii_ 34,02] It was especially a custom of the Jews in Palestine not to keep a 
dead person in the house after sunset but to lay him in a specially prepared grave 
right after he was declared dead - a custom that was justified because of the fast 
decomposition. 


87 


8 7 



 


 

[GGJ.ii_ 34,03] After the helper met Me, he hastily went to the house, which was 
not far away, to tell the sisters about My coming. As was the custom of that time, 
they were visited by a large crowd of acquaintances and friends for days, in order 
to comfort them and to ease the painful separation and their loneliness, for in the 
beginning, the mourning women could not leave the house at all. The decency of 
that time required that they would completely mourn as visible as possible, which 
also had to be noticeable through much wailing. 


[GGJ.n_34,04] Maria and Martha were not free of the deeply rooted customs of 
their people, but did not really like this depressing wordy stuff, especially because 
they were deeply convinced of a spiritual continual life. They waited with great 
expectation for My coming to find real comfort by My word. It did not come into 
their mind that I would raise their brother from the dead, but they nevertheless 
hoped to find counsel and help with Me against the Pharisees who put themselves 
immediately on the forefront and were already looking with eager eyes at the fat 
inheritance and had already made appointments with the temple guard to secure 
the inheritance for them. 


[GGJ.n_34,05] The helper, who spoke to Me first, came into the house and he 
first met Martha. She was as usual doing the housekeeping, this despite her grief 
and as far as this was possible because of the presence of the Jews, and she tried 
to put everything in order just like when her brother was still alive, for he always 
showed an exemplary order and supervision of the tasks that were necessary on 
such big property and which were distributed among the workers. 


[GGJ.n_34,o6] Me and My followers did not yet come close to the house, but I 
was still outside the small village in order to avoid a sensation. But Martha came 
now hastily to us while we took a little rest at the side of the road, and when she 
saw Me, she ran to Me while she was loudly weeping. 


rGGJ.il 34,07! I strengthened her in her soul, and now she spoke to Me the well- 
known words (Martha): “Lord, if You would have been here, my brother would 
not have died.” 


rGGJ.11 34,08! With this she meant that it would have been easy for Me to make 
him healthy again, just like I had done for so many other people. 


rGGJ.11 34,OQl That is why she added (Martha): “For I still know very well that 
everything You ask God is given to You by Him.” 


88 


88 



 


 

[GGJ.ii_34,io] Those words were only a repetition of My words since I often told 
them by My teaching: ‘For whatever the Son asks the Father, is given to Him’. But 
these words were no firm conviction of the fact that I Myself am the Father, 
despite there were so many proofs of who was living in Me and which for a long 
time had to open the eyes of those who were close to Me. 


[GGJ.ii_34,ii] In order to further open her heart for faith and insight, I said with 
great persuasiveness: “Your brother will rise again.” 


[GGJ.n_34,i2] But Martha as well as her sister Maria became innerly so 
uncertain because of the seemingly almost insurmountable blow of fate. So much 
so that for the moment only the great distress that came over them stood before 
their eyes, and the former firm faith in Me and My mission moved completely to 
the background. In this way, people are mostly showing an apparent strong faith 
as long as the outer conditions of life are favorable. But they immediately fall back 
again into uncertainty, and even disbelief, as soon as a little test comes over them, 
which according to them had to be turned away by God because they counted 
themselves among the believers and so it should be God’s duty to protect them 
against all evil. 


rGGJ.n 34 , 1.31 How long will under age children dare to give instructions to the 
teacher as to how he has to educate them? I, the Teacher, do not educate My 
children as they want but as it is best for them. 


rGGJ.n 34,14! Also Martha, instead of being awakened by My words and 
instead of first to awaken the brother of love, the deceased faith, by herself she 
therefore answered: “I well know that he will rise again in the resurrection on the 
youngest day.” 


rGGJ.n 34,13! I answered her: “Do you not know that every day is the youngest 
day , and that I am the resurrection and the life? Whoever believes in Me will live, 
even if he dies physically. And whoever lives and believes in Me will die no more. 
The one to whom the power is given to awaken souls so that they will have the 
truest, clearest and purest life in themselves, will he not be able to bring back the 
bodies to life who are first created by the soul? Do you believe that?” 


rGGJ.n 34,16! Only now a ray of remembrance awakened in Martha about 
what she heard before concerning the awakening of the dead and thereby the 
hope that I would want to do the same here, and with hopeful love she said to Me: 


89 


8 9 



 


 

“Lord, yes, I believe that You are the Christ, the Son of God who came into the 
world to save us.” 157 


[GGJ.n_34,i7] After she said that, she wanted to fall down before Me but I 
prevented her to do this and admonished her to be cheerful and to sent Maria 
here and to remain silent herself about what we talked about. 


[GGJ.n_34,oi8] And Martha went immediately to comply with My wish. 


Chapter 35 

THE LORD AND MARIA 


Maria sat in the beauty room, which could be found in every Jewish house, and 
was surrounded by the many friends and acquaintances of Lazarus. They spoke 
comforting words to her and mentioned the many good qualities of the deceased. 
Maria preferred to stay in this company so that at least the attention of a few 
Pharisees would be turned away and they could therefore not approach her with 
all kinds of already quite brutal proposals, because, as already said, they behaved 
rather shamelessly like lords. 


[GGJ.n_35,02] Before Maria knew Me she was a very merry person, and, by the 
wealth she possessed, she carelessly gave in to the joys of the luxurious life 
introduced by Herod Antipas at that time. She was independent and believed 
that, under the protection of her brother, she did not have to worry about the 
opinion of the crowd which was however corrupted. As a result, she often had 
nasty experiences because the lustful Pharisees thought that she was frivolous. 


[GGJ.ii_ 35,03] However, her former, more outer life turned completely to the 
inner and gave her the clear sight by which she also could recognize Me more 
than her sisters. Now, after the death of her brother, the Pharisees behaved all the 
more shamelessly because they did not believe in a true change of her inner 
being. They even tried to give the impression that I was the lover that was favored 
by Lazarus and made scorning remarks about this, as well as about the absence of 
My miraculous power that should have saved the friend. 


rGGJ.11 33,04! At the moment of My arrival most of the Pharisees were not 
present but went to the already famous inn that belonged to Lazarus and was 
located on the Mount of Olives to focus on the conditions of lease. As known, the 
Pharisees had given a bad reputation to this inn and deliberated among 
themselves to especially claim the inn, because the temple could, after removing 
the blemish, make good business with it, especially because before it was often 
visited by the Jews as a kind of place of relaxation because of the beautiful view. 


[GGJ.ii_35,05] Martha went secretly to Maria who kept herself away from the 
present Jews, and said quietly to her: “The Master is here and He calls you.” 


[GGJ.n_35,o6] Maria asked quickly where I was and Martha told her short and 
quickly. When she heard that, Maria stood hastily up and went immediately 
outside. 


[GGJ.ii_ 35,07] The Jews who saw how hastily she ran away, were at first very 
surprised, but then Ephraim, a friend of Lazarus who had known his father and 
who often saw and heard Me in the house by which he became some kind of half- 
believer and took Me at least for a respectable person but not for the Messiah, 
said: “She probably goes to the grave to weep and to pray there. Friends, let us go 
and look for her to prevent her from doing something to her in her grief.” 


[GGJ.ii_35,o 8] The other Jews agreed on that, and so they slowly followed Maria 
who was in front. When she saw Me among those who belong to Me, she ran 
fervently to Me and fell loudly crying at My feet. 


rGGJ.il 35,QQl Sobbing, and in her grief and in her gladness to see Me, she could 
not find the words till I lovingly asked her: “Maria, why do you cry? Do you not 
know that your brother lives in My Kingdom?” 


[GGJ.ii_35,io] Full of grief she nodded with her head and repeated the words of 
her sister (Maria): “Lord, if You would have been here my brother would not 
have died.” 


rGGJ.il 35,ill I raised her from the ground and said: “If you would have had 
faith, the spirit that lives in Me could also have protected your brother even if I 
was not present, but you are little children [under age children] and do not 
understand God’s ways.” 


[GGJ.n_35,i2] Meanwhile the Jews who followed Maria came also closer and 
formed a group of about 12 people. When they saw how much Maria was crying 
and, while I was holding her, she apparently did not want to be comforted, they 
also were deeply moved, as well as those who belong to Me and who were present 
at this scene. And from both sides there were abundant tears of compassion. 


[GGJ.n_35,i3] Now Ephraim, who was already a grey haired man, said: 
“Master, death can be so cruel that it has torn away this protector and best 
brother in his full manly power. Why did such thing have to happen?” 


[GGJ.n_35,i4] Also the other Jews, although they really knew Me and My word, 
agreed with the speaker and criticized God. These were real friends of Lazarus 
and were poor themselves for whom he did many good things during his life and 
were very grateful to him in their heart. Maria cried all the more, and those who 
belong to Me looked at Me with looks that clearly showed that they did not 
understand God’s ways in this case. 

[GGJ.n_35,i5] Then My soul was seized by a deep melancholy because in the 
hearts of those who had listened to Me for so long already and who saw so many 
beautiful works of the Spirit that lives in Me, still so little true living faith had 
grown. And all the power of My soul as Son of man clung together in the fervent 
desire to entirely destroy the serpent that prevented My children to see 
completely clear so that the tree of life in them could flourish and bear great 
fruits. 

[GGJ.n_35,i6] What happened within Me was indicated by the evangelist with 
the words: ‘He became angry in the spirit and sad’. For as long as My body had 
not died, the complete union of the material and spiritual had, as with any human 
being, not taken place yet, but the Son of Man demanded His rights as a physical 
human just like anyone else. 

He was subject to the necessities of the body as well as to the moods of His soul 
which could only be raised from the doubts to knowledge by faith and a firm will, 
bringing about in this way the full unity of body, soul and spirit. 

[GGJ.ii_ 35,17] From the moment the deity in Me made the last attempt in the 
lonely valley to argue with Lucifer, the Son of man came again more to the 
foreground, who finally in Gethsemane had to go trough all the soul’s anguishes 
and the foretaste of death to break all the bolts of death, disbelief and doubt, 
regardless of the fact that the almighty deity could have destroyed His creation 
with one word, but in order to save it, humbled Himself more deeply than the 
lowest creature. 


[GGJ.n_35,i8] These words are very necessary so that each person would take 
them up in his heart and learn to understand. Otherwise he will never understand 
why I once came into the flesh, suffered and died, and so understand the reason 
of this apparent double nature of the Son of man and the Son of God. 


Chapter 36 

THE AWAKENING OF LAZARUS 


MARIA was still crying, lying in My arm. And to test the Jews I now asked them: 
“Where did you lay him down? For they had to know that this place was very well 
known to Me. 


rGGJ.11 36,02] But they said (the Jews): “Lord, come and see”, and they turned 
around to show Me the way. 


rGGJ.11 36,03] Also Maria dried her tears, released My arm and walked in front 
to show Me the way. 


rGGJ.11 36,04! Did the One who knows all ways need a guide? And My eyes were 
full of tears. 


rGGJ.11 36,05] Then the Jews said among each other: “See how He loved Him”. 


rGGJ.11 36,06! Nota bene: If people would know about all the things that are 
contained in this event and what it means in the spiritual world they would never 
doubt anymore that God is entirely love. 


[GGJ.n_36,07] It has to be preserved for future writers when the hearts will have 
become more receptive and purer to make those deepest secrets of heart of the 
eternal Spirit of God more clear and to describe them with understandable words 
for the believing, childlike mind so that they will realize how infinitely great and 
inexhaustible the source of My love is. Amen. 


rGGJ.11 36,08! Some of the Jews who came with Ephraim whispered now 
among each other, indicating the miracle that I performed for the blind man on 
the road to Jericho: “Could He who opened the eyes of the blind man also not 
take care that Lazarus would not have died?” 


rGGJ.11 36,oq1 Again My inner Being was moved, because all these words - 
although they could not be heard by those who stood around Me while I could 
clearly hear them - provoked a deep melancholy because of the fact that their 
faith was so little alive. 


[GGJ.ii_36,io] And I turned to My disciple John who walked next to Me and 
said to him: “John, when you will report about the deed for which I go to the 
gave, report then also about those doubters so that the future generations will 
have a clear sign of how little use miracles have, and that all power only lives in 
the word which is permeated by faith. That is why those who belong to Me should 
in later times only fight with this sharpest weapon, because what is of God is 
infallible by the inner, lasting nature.” 


rGGJ.n 36,11! Now we came to the grave which was located outside of Bethany 
on a spot with an open view, surrounded by olive trees and bushes, and it was cut 
out in the rocks. Lazarus already constructed it during his life because formerly it 
had been his precious thought to rest on his estate and to be also its protector as 
it were after his death. This grave, which exists even now - but by no means the 
grave that is shown to the strangers and travelers - was not made with a front 
room and a niche as in the usual manner of the Jewish graves, but more in the 
manner of the Roman cemeteries or columbaria 1 


1 Columbarium: a space in which urns of the deceased are kept. 


rGGJ.n 36,12] There was a deep hall hewn in the rocks, quite highly arched, and 
at its end there was a deeper part in the rock in which the deceased was laid, 
covered by a big rectangular stone that was difficult to turn away. That hall, 
according to Lazarus’ idea, had to contain niches on the left and right for the 
future graves of his sisters. But these did not want to know their future places of 
burial during their lifetime. That is why their brother omitted this and made only 
one grave. 


rGGJ.n 36,13! When we came to the grave, I said to a few of Lazarus’ helpers 
who were nearby and busy to arrange the environment of the grave and who were 
now curiously watching to see what would happen: “Lift the stone from the 
grave.” 


rGGJ.n 36,14! They heard My call in disbelief, and Martha, who did not 
indicate to them to follow My command, said in a worried tone to Me: “Lord, he 
already smells, for he has been laying there for 4 days already.” 

 

rGGJ.11 36,15! I answered her: “Martha, why do you resist My word? Did I not 
tell you that you will see the glory of God if you believe? Then do what I have told 
you.” 


[GGJ.n_36,i6] Then with great difficulty they lifted the heavy stone from the 
grave, and immediately the workers drew back because of the bad smell that 
emanated from the dead. So nobody could stay close to the hall of the rock, and 
those who came with us stepped aside, being surprised and watching with full 
expectation to see what I would do. 


rGGJ.11 36,17! And I went to stand close to the entrance of the hall of the rock 
and said with a loud voice: “Father, I thank You that You answered Me, Your Son. 
However, I know that You always answer Me, for Your voice lives and sounds in 
Me. I am not saying this for My sake but for the sake of the people who stand here 
around, so that they finally may entirely believe and realize that You have sent Me 
and that You live in Me, as I in You.” 


rGGJ.ii 36,18! After these words I went to the grave and called with a loud 
voice: “Lazarus, come out.” 


rGGJ.ii 36 ,iq1 Immediately the bad smell disappeared, and the body that came 
to life began to move. Maria and Martha felt in their heart what would happen 
when I went to the grave, but they nevertheless carried the doubt whether I would 
succeed - like everyone else always prefer to have faith when others are 
concerned, but when it concerns their own skin, they have much less faith. And 
they cried out from joy and ran into the toumb. 


rGGJ.ii 36,20] Now Lazarus was completely tied up in death cloth, his face 
covered with a sweat cloth. He himself sat upright and sat in the grave like 
someone who woke up from a deep sleep, being not yet able to gather his 
thoughts. 


rGGJ.ii 36,21! Therefore I said to his sisters: “Untie the cloths and let him go.” 


Chapter 37 

THE CONVERSION OF MANY JEWS 

WHEN that happened, Lazarus recognized Me immediately and came quickly to 
Me. He knelt before Me and called out loudly: “My Lord and My God.” 


[GGJ.n_37,2] But I lifted him up, hugged him to My chest and said: “Lazarus, 
you overcame death by Me. See to it that you will also be able to do that without 
My help, for a man is only really free from all the bonds of death when he pulls 
My power unto himself, and then, as a conqueror and ruler, will come out of his 
grave in which his soul was slumbering. But go inside now and strengthen 
yourself so that your body will gather new strength for the earthly life.” 


[GGJ.n_37,03] Lazarus did not say a word anymore but greeted silently, and 
sustained by his sisters, he slowly walked home, dressed in the clothing of the 
grave. 


[GGJ.n_37,04] However, all the others who were present at this scene were so 
much seized by amazement that it was only after a long time that they could find 
the words to express themselves. 


[GGJ.n_37,05] Especially the Jews who first spoke out skeptically about My 
miracle power, looked with fearful embarrassment in My direction, so that I said 
to them: “Are you afraid of Me, now that you have seen that I can command 
death? Do you then not see that I am a Lord of life? But if you fear Him, then 
what will happen if you knew that I am leading death as My companion? Do you 
not have all reason to rejoice? Thus, why do you hesitate?” 


[GGJ.n_37,o6] One of them, who already had been the spokesman of the 
others before, said: “Lord, we can clearly see now that truly all of God’s power is 
embodied in You. But when we realize that, should we then not be afraid to stand 
before the One whose breath called us to life and who, because of our many sins, 
could again destroy us with one breath? For look, after our eyes have seen the 
works of Your power it became very clear to us how miserable we are in Your eyes 
and how useless in what we do. Therefore, we are afraid to exist before You.” 


rGGJ.il 37,07! I said: “If justice would be the only quality of God you truly 
would not - and no one of you here - be able to exist before Me, for there is not 
one hair on you that did not fall prey to sin and therefore to destruction. But 
God’s love, meekness and mercy are as infinite as the infinity of the entire 
universe, and therefore He does not forget even the least of all creatures which He 
ever created. 



[GGJ.ii_37,o 8] But He wants to be a caring Father for you all - not a God for 
whose wrath you shiver and tremble. The God of revenge lives only in your 
imagination. You made him that way because only a vengeful, severe God seemed 
for the Jews to be worthy of worship. That is why multiple judgments were so 
much emphasized, which were however never real judgments but solely the 
consequences of the evilness, stupidity and stubbornness of the people. 


[GGJ.n_37,09] However, I am the Father Myself who came down now in human 
form to proof His more than great love to the people and to open for them the 
gates of life which they themselves have blocked. Then why are you afraid when 
you see that I break open the gates of death so that life can enter in full streams?” 


[GGJ.n_37,io] The spokesman, who became more confident now, came closer 
and said: “O Lord, we are also no more afraid. If You would like to accept us we 
would gladly stay with You forever.” 


[GGJ.ii_37,ii] I said: “Have you ever heard that I rejected someone who longed 
for Me? Therefore, come all to Me so that I revive you and release you completely 
from all bonds of death.” 


[GGJ.n_37,i2] After these words, all the hesitating spectators rushed to Me, and 
each one of them tried to grab My hands or to touch My 165 garment. Because of 
that they all had tears in their eyes, for they were mightily permeated with My 
Spirit of love which woke up a fervent longing for Me. 


rGGJ.11 37,13! I urged them to be calm and to come with Me to Lazarus who 
meanwhile had reached the house. At first he was fearfully stared at by his 
numerous personnel as if he was a ghost, but when his sisters gave an 
explanation, they stood around him with great shouts of joy, for Lazarus was a 
very just man who was very loved by everyone in his house. And by his death the 
subsistence of his landed property became very uncertain, because, as already 
mentioned before, Lazarus did not leave any manly heirs behind so that the many 
workers, handmaids and helpers who were active on his landed properties were 
very worried about their further employment and especially about who their next 
lord might be. Now these worries became suddenly unnecessary, and their shouts 
of joy were extremely happy for two reasons, namely for Lazarus and for their 
own free future. 


rGGJ.11 37,14! It is not difficult to imagine that when I entered the house - after 
they finished their shouts of joy - that everyone ran to Me and greeted Me as 
Savior of people in great need. I kindly accepted all those expressions of gratitude 
and told those who were simply drunk of joy to give thanks to the Lord and to 
thank Him who accomplished such great things in the Son of man. I had to speak 
that way there because many of them were by far still not ripe enough to know 
that I Myself was the Lord whom they had to thank. 


[GGJ.ii_ 37,15] Lazarus, who meanwhile had strengthened himself with food and 
drink and who was now more fresh and fit as ever before, gave instructions for a 
great festive dinner which, according to Jewish custom, should not be lacking on 
any happy occasion. He invited Me to share it with his household and asked Me if 
he also could invite his neighbors who were still not there. I gladly allowed this to 
him, for it was according to My will that this deed should become known in the 
wide environment because now would start the last and greatest draught of fishes 
for My Kingdom. 


Chapter 38 

THE PLAN OF THE PHARISEES 


Some of the Jews, who belonged to the friends of Lazarus and who were the most 
irritated by the shameless performance of the Pharisees, went to the inn on the 
Mount of Olives - knowing that the Pharisees were still there - because they did 
not want to deny themselves the inner pleasure of pulling away the fat morsel 
from the jaws of those hungry wolves. One can easily imagine with what kind of 
fright and unbelief they received the news while they were just guzzling in the 
idea of being already the owners of the inn while they behaved very arrogantly 
domineering in front of the innkeeper who was very sad because of this future 
prospect. They also directly ordered the best wine and even invited in abundance, 
completely against their habits, the servants of the temple guard. The whole 
group was already in a merry, cheerful mood when the Jews came in and greatly 
sobered up the already strongly drunken heads. 


rGGJ.11 38,02] Now when they heard that I was there, they thought, after they 
withdrew to deliberate, that probably a tremendous Essene deceit had been 
carried out in Bethany by Me, and someone who strongly looked like Lazarus was 
put in his place to take away the share of the temple, for I must have been a 
common lover of the two sisters and would of course do everything to be of 
service to My lovers. 

 

rGGJ.11 38,03I They believed in no way in a true awakening. And so their first 
concern was how they could grab Me, the false Lazarus and the two sisters in 
their power. They also thought out a very clever plan, namely that I and the false 
Lazarus should be called out of the house by two of them. These should not show 
any doubt but rather joy at the awakening and so try to lure us two somewhat 
away from the house. Then the temple guards would appear and take us 
immediately into custody. 


rGGJ.11 38,04! This plan was so good that the Pharisees who were chosen to 
greet Me and Lazarus were in high esteem and that it would be against every 
decency and custom not to come to meet these high priests when they thought to 
honor a house with their presence. If we were real Jews of that time we 
immediately had to put the house and personnel at the disposal of these high 
guests, otherwise it would be considered as the deepest contempt for the temple 
and its representatives. 


rGGJ.ii 38,05! The Jews went away at once, together with the innkeeper who 
was overly rejoiced when the Pharisees were informed about such unpleasant 
news. They soon came back to tell what they had done, firmly trusting that He 
who ordered death could certainly also destroy the maliciousness of the temple. 


rGGJ.ii 38,06! But I admonished them with soft words for what they had done, 
which could be called human but which was nevertheless not according to My 
order because it was not appropriate to feel a malicious pleasure, not even for 
such hard-hearted evildoers, and that in this way their heart would become 
inaccessible to feel compassion for the darkness of those people. They were very 
saddened by this rebuke and they only calmed down when I assured them that in 
this case no one was hurt by what they did but that they should refrain from 
doings such things in the future. This they also promised and were then again 
very cheerful. 


rGGJ.ii 38,07! Meanwhile, the Pharisees and the servants of the temple came 
near but were still far enough away from the house to look out for a hidden place 
as an ambush without being noticed. They deliberated again about their plan and 
how they especially wanted to take Me into their power in order to immediately 
accuse Me as a deceiver and agitator of the people. 


rGGJ.ii 38,08! They were at a distance of about 10 minutes from Bethany at a 
curve in the road which still hid the houses for them. The two high priests wanted 
now to go with a servant who had to announce their coming in the house when 
their plan suffered a serious setback. 



rGGJ.11 38 ,oq1 Because the well-known big watchdogs appeared and charged at 
them with furious barking and surrounded the whole group in such frightening 
manner that none of them dared to move. These dogs, which I gave to Lazarus, 
behaved so completely indifferent since his death and could not be motivated 
again to perform their function as protector and guardian for which reason the 
temple servants could do what they liked completely unhindered. But now that 
Lazarus was alive, their old power and alertness returned as well, which became 
noticeable to the Pharisees in a highly unpleasant manner. The very big animals 
ran with baring teeth around the little group, and when one of the helpers dared 
to hit at one of the animals, he immediately was put to the ground and was in 
danger of being devoured. This one example was sufficient to withhold the temple 
servants from using their weapons, especially because the animals contented with 
keeping the whole group back without attacking them, but also without allowing 
them to move from their place. 


Chapter 39 

THE PHARISEES ARE CHASED AWAY 


I told Lazarus and those present what happened outside and asked them to come 
outside with Me to convince themselves of the truth and to still try to make clear 
to the Pharisees that their power would have absolutely no effect here. That is 
what we did, and we went towards the prisoners. 


[GGJ.n_39,02] When we arrived there I asked the servants to voluntarily lay 
down their weapons, which they also did immediately. One of Lazarus’ helpers 
seized them and at once also the big dogs he down quietly in a circle, but they 
always closely watched their enemies and were prepared to jump on them at a 
sign of their master. 


rGGJ.11 3Q,Q3l Now I turned to the Pharisees who gnashed their teeth from 
shame and anger because Lazarus, whom they knew very well, was directly 
recognized by them as the real one, and now they secretly thought that he actually 
did not die but that only a very cleverly arranged deception about his sickness, his 
death and his arising had taken place that was convenient to show in an awesome 
manner My equally false miraculous power to the people and which, certainly in 
the whole of Judea, had to assure Me of a lot of followers since Lazarus was such 
famous personality. 

[GGJ.ii_ 39,04] After that I thoroughly expounded their thoughts, I asked the 
temple servants: “How long do you still want Me to bear you? You despise all the 
signs that I did and that unmistakably testify of Me, and you interpret My words 
as lies. Do you not know that there is a limit which man may not cross if he does 
not want to entirely fall a prey to spiritual death, and that, when that limit is 
reached, God’s mercy must destroy the bodies so that the souls would not entirely 
perish by the misuse of the bodies? And you are all coming close to that limit." 


[GGJ.n_39,05] "All the things which your bodies can use for the ennobling of the 
soul you distort in yourselves to kill him. Is that why you have your senses? You 
do not look to see, you do not listen to hear, you do not taste, feel or smell to use 
the senses as mediators, but only to indulge in your sensuality. That is why you 
already became a stinking carrion that has to be destroyed so that not everything 
would be spoiled and of which at least the ashes can be used for the otherwise 
good, useful soil." 


[GGJ.ii_39,o 6] "Truly, I say to you: the axe is laid to your trunk to cut down the 
poisonous tree from your life. But do not blame God for that but solely yourself. 
You can see now what kind of great events that took place here, and many 
undeceiving witnesses are standing here around Me to testify of the truth. 
Nevertheless, hate and the wish to destroy Me and My followers ferments in you, 
in which you will however never succeed. So disappear with your anger, but know 
that you yourselves will reap what you sow”. 


rGGJ.il 39,Q7l After these words, the seven big dogs rose up, and while they 
barked, they chased after the Templers and servants the whole way to Jerusalem, 
jumping and stumbling in great fear, they covered the distance with great speed, 
and they did not rest before the safe city walls of Jerusalem protected them 
against the animals that chased them up to there before coming back. 


[GGJ.n_39,o8] From that day on, Lazarus was, despite the malicious attempts of 
the Council, completely at peace in Bethany as well as on the Mount of Olives, for 
because of the dogs not one hostile priest or temple servant dared to go there 
anymore. 


Chapter 40 

THE FUTURE MISSION OF LAZARUS 


101 


 101 



 


 

Now that the Mount of Olives was purified from Pharisees, we returned to 
Bethany to Lazarus’ house where everything had been made ready for a festive 
dinner. We first went to Lazarus’ big dining hall which accommodated us already 
many times. 


[GGJ.n_40,02] Now started a great conversation, and they questioned Lazarus 
asking what he was doing when he laid in the grave and if he remembered what 
he surely had to experience and see in the spiritual world. But he stated that he 
did not really know and that it was as if he slept very deeply and also dreamt very 
lively but that he only remembered vague images of what he dreamt. However he 
knew that he talked with several deceased people, also with his father, without 
remembering what was actually said. Despite all that, he knew for sure that he 
really died and that it was not just a dream, for his last hours were very lively in 
his memory, especially the fear of death which he very clearly felt, as well as the 
slow extinction of his life’s spirits. 


[GGJ.n_40,03] When they asked him how he woke up he explained that he 
heard My voice that commanded him to come out, and so he woke up as if a 
person awakes from his sleep, and he obeyed Me because he immediately knew 
how and what had happened to him. 


[GGJ.ii_ 40,04] The friends who were present and My disciples still asked all 
kinds of questions to which Lazarus could however not give them an answer - 
like what kind of conversations he had, where he was, and still many other things 
which, as they thought, could give them a still greater insight of the life in the 
spiritual world. But Lazarus did not seem to know all those things. 


[GGJ.n_40,05] Now they asked Me for the reason why he forgot it, and I said to 
them: “If you are imprisoned in a dungeon, and you receive the freedom for a 
short time, so that you can travel around unhindered and have great 
conversations with also free beings about the many wonders of nature while the 
very lovely surroundings are really striking your eye, and you are then forced to 
return into your old dungeon which before did not seem a prison to you at all as 
long as you were not able to know anything better - will your soul then not be 
consumed by the longing to receive back the freedom that you enjoyed for such a 
short time? Yes, will the enforced life not become unbearable for your soul? 
Because when his remembrance will repeatedly experience those joyful hours, he 
will see hour after hour how wonderful the freedom was that he enjoyed. 


[GGJ.n_40,o6] See, this is what happened to Lazarus. I removed the 
remembrance of what he experienced in those 4 days when he laid in the grave 


102 


 102 



 


 

because he is called to be still very active for Me on this Earth. If that consuming 
longing in him would grow, then the desire to return to the once enjoyed 
complete freedom would hinder him. 


[GGJ.ii_40,07] So it is very good the way it is, and you all will come to realize 
this more easily when also you will have put off your body. Moreover, you already 
heard so many things yourselves in this house about life after death that your 
questions are more useless chatter than an examination of the life after death 
about which anyone of you must more than enough be convinced by now.” 


[GGJ.n_40,o8] Lazarus said to Me: “Lord, You spoke about a task that will be 
granted to me to perform here. May I know what You mean with this activity that 
I can do for You?” 


[GGJ.n_40,09] I said: “All this will become clear of itself in the future because 
My hand leads you, and all those who are called to work for My Kingdom, in such 
soft manner that they can believe that it only comes from their own stimulation. 
And basically this is also what happens, for if I want free beings, then the free 
decision must be left to them. It are only the outer events that I can direct in such 
a way that the decision comes to them to choose between 2 ways which My 
servants can go. My children will then, out of love for Me, never doubt and will 
know which way is the right one. But the impulse to decide must always come 
from them. 


[GGJ.n_39,io] So you also will still have to decide in your life, completely out of 
yourself, whether you have to go left or right. One way leads directly to work in 
My name, the other to an easier way of life in which you can be a slow observer. 
According to the choice that you make, your activity will then also take form. 
However, I know and say to you also that you will make the right choice out of 
love for Me. And this must be enough, for to tell you more would not be good for 
you.” 


[GGJ.ii_39,ii] Lazarus said: “Lord, this is also sufficient for me, for it makes 
me extremely happy to know that You can and will use me, a weak instrument. 
Just give me the right strength so that I can completely accomplish the promised 
task.” 


[GGJ.n_40,i2] I said: “Do not worry about that, but only trust in full faith, then I 
can work through you and you through Me. The right relationship between Father 
and Son is then also in you all, as it shows now in Me. 




[GGJ.ii_ 40,13] That is why I came into the world, namely to show and to teach 
you that you can accomplish much more than I Myself now if you are only of good 
will and full of faith. 


[GGJ.ii_40,14] To what extent the people, and especially the Jews, are full of 
faith and good will, will soon reveal itself, because the time is near that the 
harvest of My years of teaching will and must begin. No matter how small it is 
and no matter how insignificant the fertile seeds are, nevertheless will every grain 
bear fruit a hundredfold which must and will provide the whole Earth. Then a big 
harvest will begin which will abundantly fill the barns of the Father with fruits so 
that a great famine can no more exist as it is allowed now so that the lost son 
would turn back and satisfy himself. However, you do not yet understand these 
words of Mine, but over there in My Kingdom you will fully understand them. 


[GGJ.n_40,i5] But you, My Lazarus, take measures and prepare to receive many 
guests, for the news that you are resurrected went already around the city, and a 
lot of people are on their way to see you and Me. They will all be refreshed, and 
My servants, whom you already know, will help you in this.” 


Chapter 41 

THE TEMPLE SERVANTS PLAN EVIL 


After I had said this, Raphael, well-known to all, stood already next to Me and 
greeted Lazarus very kindly, and this one was also very glad to see Raphael and 
expressed his joy in lively words as well as My disciples and several friends of 
Lazarus who formerly were able to witness the exceptional miraculous power of 
the archangel. 


[GGJ.n_4i,02] Now they very speedily made preparations in the hall to receive 
the guests that were announced, and it became twice as busy in the whole house 
so that a conversation between us became difficult, and we went outside in order 
not to hinder the busy servants of the house who zealously and cheerfully 
followed Raphael’s instructions. 


[GGJ.n_4i,03] It is necessary to indicate for the already mentioned reason - for 
the freer spiritual development of My followers - that there were not so much 
apparent interventions of My power anymore, but everything that could be 
described now as miraculous and exceptional always had to look outerly more 
simple and human. 


[GGJ.ii_41,04] Now when I say that in the big hall of Lazarus and also in the 
adjoining rooms the tables were set in about half an hour at which a few hundred 
people had to be fed, and that in about the same time also the food was made 
ready for all of them, one will think that such work cannot be realized, also not by 
very zealous servants of which about 20 were available, since by natural means 
the preparation of the food alone had to take more time. Nevertheless, everything 
was ready without visible special help. However, the personnel were very skilled. 


[GGJ.n_4i,05] With this remark it has to be made clear that the nearing of the 
greatest event of all times was prepared without special intervention, for although 
the awakening of Lazarus seemed for those who were present highly miraculous, 
it was still not as overwhelming as for instance the changing of waste regions into 
fertile land and other things. 


[GGJ.n_4i,o6] But this awakening formed the corner stone of My work as 
teacher and brought in its harvest. 


[GGJ.n_4i,07] He who has the ability to understand and makes effort to be 
awake in spirit, let him understand. He who is still in the grave, let him roll away 
its stone, so that the dead Lazarus can be awakened and can come out. Amen. 


[GGJ.n_4i,o8] We stood outside before the house and on the road from 
Jerusalem we saw already a great number of people coming, and their destination 
was Bethany. These were Jews to whom it was told that Lazarus was alive again 
and who wanted to convince themselves of it. They came closer, and when they 
saw Lazarus and Me, they hurried with quick paces to us and looked with full 
amazement at both of us, the awakened one and the Awaker. 


[GGJ.n_4i,09] Lazarus said in a very kind tone to them: “Dear friends, you are 
amazed and do not understand that I am alive while I visibly and most certainly 
had died, but you know that nothing is impossible to God, and He, who brings 
everything to life, will surely also be able to awake this earthly dust again, even 
when the life went out of it. Look, I am really alive, and here stands the One who 
called me to life again. Can you still doubt that the power of God can accomplish 
all that - the power that truly lives in Him, the Messiah, and that manifests itself? 
Truly, he who still doubts will look like a very hard stone that cannot be moved in 
any other way than only by means of extremely raw powers to let him 
imediately fall apart again and flow downward along with the water without 
loosening even the smallest part of it. 


[GGJ.ii_41,io] You came to see me. So look at me and convince yourselves that I 
really am alive. But go then to this Master of all life and let yourselves be 
awakened to the true life and the true knowledge of all the secrets of God which 
He accomplishes in the Son of man, for the time is near that the good and the bad 
ones will be separated and the wheat has to be purified from the chaff so that this 
wheat can be sowed out to multiply itself and become an abundant fruit.” 


[GGJ.ii_41,ii] Lazarus spoke these words full of inspiration and in My name so 
that the Jews were deeply moved and gathered around Me and My followers, and 
they longed to be instructed, which also happened. 


[GGJ.ii_ 41,12] But still more people were coming from the city so that soon 
almost 1,000 people were present who all convinced themselves of the miracle, 
and they loudly praised and glorified God who accomplished such things in Me. 


[GGJ.ii_ 41,13] When everyone was slowly calming down I gave Lazarus a sign, 
and he requested those who were present to come with him. And they all followed 
him to the rooms where the great festive dinner was prepared. 


[GGJ.ii_ 41,14] This did not happen in an unusual way so that nothing special 
should be reported here. The only thing to be mentioned is that it were not My 
close disciples, the 12 apostles, who performed the role of instructing and 
teaching the many Jews who were driven by curiosity, but this was done by the 
other disciples and followers who followed Me for already a long time and who 
were also well instructed in My teaching. 


[GGJ.ii_ 41,15] We - this means Lazarus with his sisters and the apostles, and of 
course also I - sat somewhat aside at the end of the hall. Then Lazarus came up 
with the question what the Pharisees planned to do now after that the big dogs 
had dealt with them so terribly and chased them back to Jerusalem. 


[GGJ.ii_41,i 6] I said to him: “They immediately ran to the temple and there they 
called their colleagues together. They are now having a big meeting and they 
bring forward their complaints which imply that there is a big deception going on. 

 

[GGJ.ii_ 41,17] There is a lot of talking back and forth between the members of 
the Council because there are many with them who convinced themselves of the 
actual miracles. Also, the news came in from the Pharisees whom we met with 
Mucius, and related that the region at the Nebo did actually change and that they 
met a trading caravan that reported about the miracles that took place in Aphek. 
All these things I did - as undisputable reliable people have declared - so that, if 
these things are based on truth, it may not be impossible that Lazarus had died 
and was awakened, for to change whole regions was still a greater work than to 
bring back to life a body that only became without soul. 


[GGJ.n_4i,i8] Now there is a heavy dispute because the Pharisees who are 
hostile to Me try to explain that a deceit has been taken place. However, then they 
are in disagreement with the friends of the Pharisees who were sent out, assuring 
them that they do not let them be deceived, for as sober thinking men they were 
especially suitable to examine everything and that this was the reason why the 
assignment was entrusted to them. 


[GGJ.n_4i,i9] Now one of the first scribes stands up and says: “There is no 
doubt that this Man performs great wonders, and for this reason the temple made 
great effort to win Him, but always without success. But it is equally sure that He 
always worked against the servants and pushed the contempt to the extreme in 
front of the people regarding us, the servants of God. 


[GGJ.n_4i,2o] But if we want to live in peace with the Romans, it is absolutely 
necessary that the people obey us blindly, for it is the duty and the right of the 
temple to lead them. Therefore, I advice that we will try to grab this Jesus of 
Nazareth as fast as possible as an agitator of the people and hand Him over to the 
justice of the Romans and ask from them that He would be punished according to 
our law of the temple and be made harmless.” 


[GGJ.n_4i,2i] Caiphas, the high priest, says: “If the Romans would not master 
this land, this Man would have been in chains and cords for already a long time, 
but even among the highest Romans He has mighty friends who will protect Him. 
Therefore, an opportunity must be found that He would deliver Himself to us by 
some deed which would give us the right to grab Him and at which the criminal 
law can be applied. But He is clever enough not to react against the Romans but 
only against us. That is why He is more dangerous than anyone else who could be 
grabbed and judged as agitator of the people.” 


[GGJ.n_4i,22] Nicodemus, who is also present - in order to insert a word in 
My favor - says: “Dear friends, you know that a great deal of the people adheres 
to Jesus, for maybe only the smallest part has been made known here of how 
many people He has made healthy. Would it not be better to leave Him to the 
people for the sake of His miraculous power which spreads a great blessing?” 


[GGJ.n_4i,23] Now a storm of indignation comes up in the Council because of 
such impertinence to propose this to the High Council, and our Nicodemus has to 
hear many insults and allegations of suspicion. But he listens to all this very 
calmly, for I command him now in his heart to keep quiet and to come here. 


[GGJ.n_4i,24] Now Caiphas speaks again after it became quiet again: “Truly, 
you all know nothing and do not think about anything. It is better for all of us that 
this Man dies for the people before the whole people will go to ruin. And therefore 
I command that everyone must be prepared to search for the right opportunity 
about which I spoke, because what has to happen, let it happen soon.” 


[GGJ.n_4i,25] The members of the Council agree on these words and close their 
meeting. However, Nicodemus leaves quietly and unnoticed and will soon arrive 
here. 


[GGJ.n_4i,26] Look, now you know what the situation is down there in the 
temple, but do not worry. They will not be able to carry out their plans before I 
will give Myself into their hands.” 


Chapter 42 

THE DEPARTURE FROM BETHANY 


LAZARUS said: “Lord, I suppose You will not deliver Yourself to this rabble that 
is only worth to be destroyed as soon as possible?” 


[GGJ.n_42,02] I said: “What must happen lies in the will of the Father. His will 
be done, but the Son has to obey. So do not worry about what is not your work but 
take care that also you will make progress in knowing the will of your and My 
Father.” 


[GGJ.ii_42,03] Lazarus asked Me: “Lord, are You then not the Father.” 
 

[GGJ.ii_ 42,04] I said: “I am, nevertheless the time has come now that the Father 
in Me must withdraw Himself so that the Son will decide freely. What I just 
revealed to you of what happens down there in the temple is the first step for the 
Son to make His decision. And believe Me, He already took His decision so that 
the people will not go down. But do not ask any further but take care that those 
who are present will lack nothing, for this is the last time that they will be in My 
earthly nearness as children for whom I take care physically.” 


[GGJ.n_42,05] Lazarus, being worried, asked: “Lord, will You then leave us 
again?” 


[GGJ.n_42,o6] I said: “Yes, I will leave you again very early in the morning and 
will not come back except for preparing the great Easter lamb.” 


[GGJ.n_42,07] Now Lazarus thought that I, just as before, would stay longer 
with them in the winter. 


[GGJ.n_42,o8] I answered him: “You know what the temple is planning to do, 
but I do not want that those who belong to Me will be disturbed because of Me. 
That is why I go away from here, to a place where I can be quiet till Easter. So be 
it.” 


[GGJ.n_42,09] Then Lazarus said nothing anymore, and as the lord of the house 
he quickly went to see if the many guests were well served. 


[GGJ.n_42,io] It did not take long before Nicodemus came to us and reported 
what happened down there in the temple, which of course corresponded with 
what I had said. At first he was afraid because of the many people that were 
present of whom he knew many very well, but I becalmed him and assured him 
that none of these people would betray him. 


[GGJ.ii_42,ii] This evening was of great importance because of the fact that all 
those who were present adhered to Me and My teaching, but apart from that, 
nothing has to be mentioned here which did not already happen in the same 
manner at similar occasions. Therefore, this whole matter can be left out since the 
most important has already been mentioned. 


[GGJ.n_42,i2] The whole group stayed together with Lazarus till sunset after t—| 
which they took leave from him and Me with words of hearty gratitude, and they m 
returned to Jerusalem to spread the news of the miracle further so that Lazarus 
would not have anything else to do during the following days than to satisfy the 
general curiosity and admiration by showing himself. On that occasion he did not 
fail to zealously refer to My Word, and he also did not keep silent about how the 
Pharisees behaved on his properties and how they were served, this to great 
dissatisfaction of the temple, and so the Jews did not hold back to mock them. It 
is obvious that also this matter greatly contributed to undermine the reputation 
of the Pharisees and showed very clearly the greediness of the temple, and for this 
reason the decision slowly ripened in the Council to also get rid of him. They 
certainly would have succeeded in this if Lazarus was not so well protected by his 
dogs that were better guards than any earthly bodyguard of a ruler. 


[GGJ.n_42,i3] When the inhabitants of the city had left us, I asked Lazarus to 
provide good resting places for us so that My followers, who all worked so well for 
Me today, could take rest as a precaution and could be fresh and strengthened for 
tomorrow. 


[GGJ.n_42,i4] I also said to all disciples who followed Me that everyone who 
wanted to return to their family could do that, for I would now withdraw from the 
world and keep My presence secret till Easter. So whoever had things to do which 
seemed important to him or wanted to stay with his family during the now 
coming winter could go to them, accompanied with My blessing. 


[GGJ.ii_ 42,15] Many were in favor to go when they heard that it was with My 
blessing if they would go. Only the 12 apostles, and still about 20 people who did 
not want to leave Me, remained to follow Me, no matter whereto I would lead 
them. So I blessed those who left as I had promised and urged them all to firmly 
adhere to My Word and to spread it further. At the time of Easter they would find 
Me back here where they had left Me. 


[GGJ.n_42,i6] We rested peacefully during that night, and very early I gathered 
My followers again around Me and briefly said goodbye to those who left behind: 
to Lazarus, his sisters and his whole house who reluctantly let Me go but after My 
promise that I would be with them again around Easter they were completely 
comforted and reassured. 


[GGJ.ii_42,17] Now we quickly left Bethany and went along the way to Jericho. 


[GGJ.n_42,i8] What happened now during the time till My return to Bethany 
was the period in which the Man Jesus of Nazareth came to the forefront so that 
again all the pleasant things of life came to Him so that the Man Jesus would take 
His decision freely for the now necessary offering of death. It is too early now to 
reveal those things. Only a generation that is completely permeated in the nature 
of My love will understand it. Now it would be categorized as untrue. That is why 
I will leave out those things for the moment and will refer to it more historically. 


Chapter 43 

THE MEANING OF LAZARUS’ AWAKENING 


After our silent long walk on the road, John came to Me and said: “Lord, You 
know how much I paid attention to everything that You did and said. I also took 
many notes for myself, especially about Your teaching, and so I faithfully 
impressed all Your words in my heart and so also in my memory so that it would 
be easy for me to put in writing everything that must mainly live in our hearts. 
But I only did that partly up to now. I especially would like to write down this 
event with Lazarus of which we were all attentive witnesses, for it seems to have a 
special meaning which certainly must have another origin than only the reviving 
of a dead body.” 


[GGJ.n_43,02] I said: “What other meaning would there still be in this event?” 


[GGJ.ii_43,03] John answered: “Lord, Lazarus was especially dear to You 
because of his righteous way of life according to You, and he still had to die of a 
sickness which he brought upon himself by his own fault. Is this not a clear sign 
that a human being, as soon as he does not consciously walk before Your eyes - 
that means that he believes that he is watched by Your all-knowing eyes - can, 
despite all righteousness, still fall all too easily into all kinds of mistakes by which 
he comes into a spiritual slumber of death out of which only You can save him 
again? 


[GGJ.n_43,04] And when then the sorrow-enduring sisters of man - these are 
his actual love and his good will - will come to You and say: ‘Look, Lord, he who 
loved You but who nevertheless failed, is now dead. He would not have died if 
You would have been here’ - so this means: if he would have sensed that he 
walked before Your eyes, he would not have sinned - would You then not, out of 
mercy, free him from the night of death, let his bandages be taken away and 
refresh and restore him with the water of life in such a way that it will look as if he 
never died? 


[GGJ.ii_ 43,05] Look, Lord, these and still many other thoughts came up in me, 
and therefore I also believe that there are still many more things that are hidden 
in this event than the witnesses think.” 


[GGJ.ii_43,o 6] I said: “John, you are blessed because you can recognize in the 
spirit which only the spirit can reveal to you and because you read the inner 
meaning through the outer event. I tell you therefore also that there is infinitely 
much more hidden in this event. 


[GGJ.n_43,07] Once the big Lazarus, for whose sake I came into the flesh, will be 
awakened by My love - only then will come the moment when the love of the 
Father will become so clear to every created being that the inner love of your 
hearts would burst apart if your souls were not made strong enough through 
many schoolings to bear this enormous insight of love. 


[GGJ.n_43,o8] Of course, now the people see only a simple, although 
extraordinary, awakening from the dead in this, which fills them with amazement 
but not yet with love for God. And also later generations will detect little of the 
inner meaning. But you, who were the first to notice this, must therefore also 
testify of that and should not forget to mention this most important of all events 
in your reports. 


[GGJ.ii_ 43,09] But keep quiet about it now, because what we talked about is 
only for you and not yet for the others.” 


[GGJ.n_43,oio] Now we continued our way quietly again. After some time Judas 
noticed that I did not say anything about the direction and the way that we should 
go, and since he was burning to stay in Jericho he asked Me directly if I wanted to 
stay longer in Jericho, which was, as known, a very thriving city in My time, full of 
all the pleasures of that time, offering a place for the rich to live in, for which 
reason it was also more easy to earn money there than anywhere else by 
performing as some kind of man of wonders. 


[GGJ.ii_43,oii] I answered him: “Who told you that I want to go to Jericho?” 


[GGJ.n_43,oi2] Judas, who was somehow startled and disappointed by this 
question in return that seemed to have defeated his hope, was quick to apologize, 
saying that he only suspected it because the way was leading to it. 
 

[GGJ.ii_43,013] I answered him: “Everyone follows the way to where his spirit 
will lead him. If it draws you to Jericho, then go there. I will not stop you. But do 
not ask where My way is going, for it is not the same as yours.” 


[GGJ.n_43,oi4] Judas, for whom it was very tempting to visit the City of Palms, 
was wondering if I would get angry at him if he would go there for a short time. 


[GGJ.n_43,oi5] I said: “I let all the others go without being displeased - yes 
with My blessing. Then why should I get angry at you? Let everyone go where the 
spirit will lead him. So you also, go to Jericho, for your soul is already there.” 


[GGJ.n_43,oi6] On this, Judas thanked Me for the permission and disappeared 
unseen out of our group at the next inn of which there where many along the road 
to Jericho. It will be reported now that he spent the whole time in that city of 
Jericho that was full of Romans and strangers who were eager for wonders. And 
he did very good business by telling stories and by witnessing the awakening of 
Lazarus. 


[GGJ.ii_ 43,017] Besides that, it must also be said that he contributed a lot to the 
spreading of My teaching which he often presented with a lot of enthusiasm and 
great orator’s talent, but always with a certain hidden motive, namely that he 
wanted to draw a part of the admiration for My wisdom to himself. So, despite all 
his hidden motives, he became a very good instrument, especially for that kind of 
people in Jericho. As it also cannot be emphasized enough that Judas was 
certainly not a bad person, but only someone who wanted to serve at the same 
time himself, and with that the world, and also the spirit, but by that he came into 
a great dilemma of which other much worse people knew how to take advantage 
of it. 


Chapter 44 

THE LORD IN EPHRAIM 


Then we walked till almost close to the evening - after we had taken a rather long 
rest to strengthen our bodies - I gathered My followers around Me and told them 
that I planned to go to Ephraim and would stay there quite some time, but they 
had to keep silent to everyone because I would use that time to strengthen them 
and Myself and also for the reinforcement of some weak minds who had to be 
strengthened for the future time of fulfillment that would come soon. 



[GGJ.ii_ 44,02] Ephraim was a small unimportant town that even in My time 
was hardly taken into account and was entirely unknown to many. It was not far 
from the Dead Sea, between the mountains, totally remote. If you want to know 
more precisely where it was located - for nowadays no scientist has any idea 
anymore where it can be found - draw from the top part of the Dead Sea, where 
the maps show a rather strong curve, a line to the left until the beginning of the 
mountains which is indicated as ‘desert of Judea’. Then you have found the region 
where Ephraim was located before, of which no trace can be found now. 


[GGJ.n_44,03] We previously left the road that went to Jericho and turned to 
the south. It was almost evening when I, as already mentioned, indicated the 
purpose of our trip. So we arrived there shortly before nightfall. 


[GGJ.n_44,04] Ephraim was a poor city and was never visited by travelers. That 
is why there was no inn where we could have spent the night. Only miserable 
small huts could be found everywhere which did not deserve the name of city at 
all. The inhabitants lived needily from stock farming and all kinds of carvings out 
of hard wood and asphalt that came from the Dead Sea. The place was formerly 
used as a kind of stronghold against the invasions of nomad people. That is why 
there was a ruined castle that originated from ancient times. Although totally 
ruined it was nevertheless giving protection against wind and weather. 


[GGJ.n_44,05] We spent the night in this ruin and installed ourselves quite 
comfortably. It was big enough for everyone, and Peter thought that we finally 
could very well spend the winter within the still strong walls if I, as was often the 
case, would use My power to improve the old building here a little. I said to him 
and the others that this will also happen but that, because of the inhabitants, 
everything had to be done very carefully so that they would not know Me and that 
it would not harm their soul, for they were still very simple people who would 
express to us a very inconvenient reverence. Therefore, everything had to look to 
the outside more naturally regular. 


[GGJ.n_44,o6] Now the others asked Me why I actually did not go directly to 
this place instead of traveling so far along the road to Jericho by which a great 
detour was made. 


[GGJ.n_44,07] I told them that this was because of the Jews by whom we 
wanted to be left in peace and who would certainly not look for Me here but now 
at the other side of the Jordan or in the Jordan Valley. But here, very close to 
Jerusalem, we were actually safest in this wilderness. 



Chapter 45 

NEGOTIATING WITH THE ELDEST OF EPHRAIM 


We had a good rest in this ruin till the early morning. Then I sent a few of the 
disciples down to the city to buy food and to negotiate with the inhabitants so that 
they would allow us to stay in the building. 


[GG.J.ii_ 45,02] Soon the eldest of the city came to us with a few of his men, 
curious to know these peculiar people who asked for permission to stay in a house 
that up to now only served as a hiding place for birds and all kinds of animals. We 
received him very kindly, and since I was indicated as the head of the group, he 
asked Me if we were perhaps refugees or banished people who wanted to hide 
here in this remote region. I reassured him concerning this and clarified to him 
right away that we were just like him Hebrews but that we wanted to spend the 
winter in meditation in order to serve God worthily. 


[GGJ.ii_ 45,03] When he first showed a worrying expression on his face and a 
great desire to quick and easily refuse us, one of the group of My followers came 
forward, greeted him as an old friend with whom he visited the temple schools in 
Jerusalem. This recognition changed the man totally, and when he heard from his 
friend that I was the famous Savior of Nazareth whom he himself never met but 
about whom he had heard all the more, he apologized many times for being 
suspicious, and he gladly gave us permission to do as we pleased in these ruins. 
He also asked us to come and visit him. 


[GGJ.ii_45,04] I said: “Friend, your house is always hospitable but it would be 
too small for our group anyway, and we soon will have installed us very 
comfortably here. That is why it will be better for us to stay here. But do not make 
Me known to your subordinates and the inhabitants of the city before time so that 
you and we would not be disturbed by the attendants of the temple and hostile 
Jews.” 


[GGJ.n_45,05] He promised it and assured us that he would tell no one who 
these walls are accommodating and would reject all the nosy questions. This old 
castle was the property of the community, and he as the person in charge had the 
right to have it at his disposal and did not have to give account to anyone about 
whom he gave permission to use it. 

 

[GGJ.ii_45,o 6] I told him that My followers would repair the walls again, and so 
he would have a good right before the community to act like this because he 
would receive a good building without expenses. 


[GGJ.ii_ 45,07] The chief was very happy about that and asked immediately if we 
needed any material, then he would bring it to us. 


[GGJ.n_45,o8] But I told him that he absolutely should not worry about that 
because we would do it ourselves. 


[GGJ.n_45,09] Further he still asked if he could come back and it was obvious 
that this was gladly granted to him. 


[GGJ.n_45,io] When the chief went away, together with his friend to whom he 
still wanted to ask all kinds of questions about Me, I divided the work. And it is 
easy to imagine that for Me, as a skilled carpenter, it was absolutely not difficult 
to quickly change the house in a simple, yet, according to the notions of that time, 
very comfortable habitation. We needed a few days for that, because, as already 
mentioned, nothing had to happen here that would attract attention. Of course, 
very zealous workers would otherwise need just as many weeks for this. 


Chapter 46 

THE LORD EXPLAINS THE REASON FOR HIS DEATH 


When the habitations were arranged and divided and when everyone also took an 
appropriate domestic task upon him, Peter expressed his idea to Me: “Lord, how 
comfortable it is to rest here under this roof. O, a house without worries is really 
something wonderful. Why did You not do this earlier? You never took care to 
have a place of Your own to rest. Only now You make one for Yourself. Could we 
not stay here always and only visit the Jews outside from time to time to teach 
them? It surely would be better to stay here from now on, because those out there 
are not worth it anyway to see Your deeds and to hear Your voice apart from a few 
exceptions.” 


[GGJ.n_46,02] I said: “Dear brother, this also is not a lasting place for the Son of 
man, but He needs one to strengthen Himself for the corner stone of His activity. 
As long as I was active outside and was teaching, the inner Spirit, to which this 
body is also subjected, drove Me, but now the corner stone must be laid without 
the drive of the Spirit, so that the soul alone may take its decision out of love. 


[GGJ.n_46,03] See, that which is now happening in My soul will never be 
experienced by any human heart, because now the Son of man must elevate 
Himself to the Son of God. That is why he will also be stripped of all His power, 
and then all of you, who were around Me up to now, recognize the will of the 
Father.” 


[GGJ.n_46,04] Peter asked: “Yes Lord, but You Yourself are the Father. Then 
how can You be stripped of Your power?” 


[GGJ.ii_46,05] I answered: “The greatest warrior and hero is he who meets the 
enemy also without weapons and does not fear death if he knows that he will 
strike down the enemy sooner by his contempt of death. That is why I lay down 
all weapons of power and go to meet the enemy only with the power of the word, 
of meekness and of love so that also he will lay off all weapons of cunningness and 
evilness and will come near remorseful as the lost son. 


[GGJ.ii_46,o 6] But see, this you do not grasp yet. Therefore, be very attentive - 
to everything that you will see now.” 


[GGJ.n_46,07] Peter went now very seriously to his brothers and related My 
words to them, but they also did not understand them and thought that I was very 
strange again in My Being, as it happened once before at Capernaum. But they 
did not ask further but tried to understand the meaning of My words. 


[GGJ.ii_46,o 8] One day, when we lived about 8 days in our castle, the chief 
came to Me again and said: “Master, I heard from a citizen of Ephraim about 
Your last great deed, but also that because of this the whole temple is now very 
fraud. 


[GGJ.n_46,09] Yes, they even attempted to bring Lazarus before the Council so 
that he would purify himself by revoking everything. But Lazarus did not appear 
and said that if they want to hear something from him that they can come to 
know this in his house. But the priests declared his house as impure and refuse to 
go to him, probably only out of fear, for they say that he is protected in a 
miraculous way. 

[GGJ.ii_46,io] Of course You know all this already for a long time. But I am very 
scared for Your sake, for Jerusalem is so close by and a coincidence can betray 
You and they could tiy to pick You up here.” 


[GGJ.ii_46,ii] I said: “My dear chief of the city, do not be afraid for that, for as 
long as I will not permit it Myself, no evil of the temple has any power over Me 
and no one can succeed to grab Me. As I have been unknown until now, so it will 
remain. Even the inhabitants of this city have no suspicion and no desire to know 
Me, for I just want it that way. So do not worry at all. You are the only one here 
who wants to talk to Me and My followers and for who the gate of the house is 
thus not shut. But besides that, no one will have it easy to pass this threshold 
unless the spirit would lead him to Me.” 


[GGJ.n_46,i2] The chief, who was completely reassured by My words, said: 
“Lord, I know that You are more than a prophet or another anointed one of God, 
for only the one in whom the power of God lives can do the works that happen 
through You. So I totally agree with Your way of acting and Your will. You 
Yourself will surely know best why it is determined by You like this and not 
otherwise. But I ask You if You would like to initiate me completely in Your 
teaching which I only came to know partially.” 


[GGJ.n_46,i3] Now I sent him to My disciples who completely instructed him in 
the time ahead. 


Chapter 47 

THE ACTIVITIES OF THE LORD AND HIS DISCIPLES IN EPHRAIM 


NOW one will ask what we actually did during the day in that ruin where we were 
so isolated from the world, for it cannot be assumed that this happened without 
any benefit for My disciples. 


[GGJ.n_47,02] This is true, because while this time of isolation was mainly to 
prepare My earthly human being for the difficult time and to be made suitable for 
the transformation to the eternal, unchangeable Christ, that same time was also 
for My disciples, namely the apostles, to prepare them for their future task to 
become a teacher for all people. The process that took place in Me remained 
hidden from all eyes, but how My disciples were educating themselves and each 
other will be very precisely revealed so that everyone, who truly wants to work on 
his inner perfection, will find a guide therein that leads to the rebirth of the spirit. 


[GGJ.ii_47,03] So listen to know of what our outer and inner activities consisted. 


[GGJ.n_47,04] The outer can be quickly explained. Those simply consisted of the 
precise arrangement of all house activities which everyone gladly took upon 
himself out of love for his brother and which did also not take much time because 
of the small needs of our group. The main point is that everyone, without being 
asked, made himself useful when he noticed that some service could be done, 
because this attentiveness is already a sign of active neighborly love while 
someone with a slow spirit will not notice at all where some small deed of love can 
be done. 


[GGJ.n_47,05] I did not much support the outer activities of the house during 
our stay, like for instance taking care of the food, so that on the one hand no room 
for laziness would be given, and on the other hand to teach My followers not to 
only rely on exceptional powers. I do not have to emphasize of course that despite 
of that we did not lack anything. 


[GGJ.n_47,o6] The main thing was the spiritual nourishment. And how was this 
managed? In the first place by keeping a complete inner rest, which did not lose 
its balance by some vexation or narrow minded irritability, and then by practicing 
will power which is capable to overcome every passion and tendency to the 
antipode. Only he who first overcame himself can also overcome others. 


[GGJ.n_47,07] Also the inner sight was practiced and opened up more and 
more. Not that I Myself opened up the inner sight for My followers, but they 
themselves had to be capable to focus their spiritual view on subjects they wanted 
to know. However, this ability requires a very special purification of the soul, for 
since he is initially materially inclined, he can of course only view pure spiritual 
things out of himself when he already spiritualized himself considerably, or to say 
it more precisely, when the spirit that lives in him has become so powerful that it 
gave to the soul - that must form his body - so much spiritual understanding, 
and illuminated him with its light in such a way that he also can recognize and 
understand the spiritual images. As long as only the outer, purely physical, 
material things are made understandable to the soul by the artful mechanism of 
the body, he is still spiritual blind. As soon as he learns to look through the cover 
of the outer bodies he becomes spiritual seeing. 


[GGJ.n_47,o8] The microscopes of the present world can only give a very 
accurate image of the outer cover in the smallest details, without giving any 
explanation about the purely spiritual life of all things. Only a soul who became 
seeing is capable to recognize this, but the scientist’s instruments never, no 
matter how ingenious they are. 


[GGJ.n_47,09] And once the soul is capable to recognize the most inner life, he 
perceives of course with the same easiness also the finest constructions of the 
cover that encloses the inner life. 


[GGJ.n_47,io] It is obvious that My disciples, who had to perform as masters of 
life and teachers, had to be instructed in everything when I would not be with 
them anymore physically, and therefore they had to be entirely familiar with 
everything. 


[GGJ.ii_47,ii] Now one will ask: were My followers not already familiar with 
these things, and was there first a solitary stay necessary in the desert to reach 
that inner dominion over oneself? 


[GGJ.n_47,i2] Again it has to be emphasized here that they formerly were 
always under some kind of compulsion which My personality exerted on them by 
its presence, and also because each one of them had to endure the awareness that 
they were always watched by the many people that followed us. Everyone knows 
very well that it is much easier to avoid evil when one knows that he is watched, 
because through that, a kind of shame in front of strangers comes up or the 
greediness to continue, this in contrary to when one feels completely free of every 
compulsion. 


[GGJ.n_47,i3] Now there were many opportunities for their testing here, for 
firstly I often withdrew Myself for days for My own preparation, and secondly My 
followers lived here entirely free from the admiring crowd who often thought that 
My disciples must be at least equal to their teacher or even finally had to exceed 
Him since it often happened that disciples defeated the master. 


[GGJ.n_47,i4] The inhabitants of Ephraim were not concerned at all about us 
but they quietly did their work and took us for some new Jewish sect that often 
came up during My time and they thought that we were followers of John who 
wanted to prepare themselves here for the coming Kingdom of God. Since they 
moreover knew and also saw that we repaired the old castle again, they 
considered us all the more as strange people with whom you better not get in 
contact in order to avoid being ignited by their weirdness. 


[GGJ.ii_ 47,15] That is why this place was the most suitable for inner self 
training, for those who followed Me up to here got rid of their desire for the outer 
world already a long time ago so that trials in this respect were not necessary 
anymore. And those who still had to learn about this we left behind. 


[GGJ.n_47,i6] However, a few things still happened here which have to be 
mentioned so that everyone can still learn how the training should take place and 
how events that are often insignificant can make a deep impression on the inner 
purification and strengthening of the will. These will be shown here now so that 
you will know what John actually meant with the words: ‘And He stayed there 
with His disciples.’ 


Chapter 48 

THE SOUL’S CONDITION OF THE DISCIPLES 


AT one time My disciples (meaning the apostles) made a trip in the mountains - I 
Myself instructed them to do this so that they could also open their sense for their 
environment without My presence. And they were overtaken by a heavy 
rainstorm. In Palestine the winter is associated with heavy rainstorms which are 
not as harmless as in Europe. The water streams faster together, and in the 
mountains, that are completely dried up in the sun during the summer, big 
streams of water quickly develop in the clefts which can be dangerous for a 
traveler since the water rages very heavily and suddenly downwards and the rocks 
cannot absorb the big quantities of water but act only as a reservoir for the water. 
It is therefore dangerous to visit the clefts at the time of the sudden rainstorms 
because a careless person is not able to save himself when he is overtaken by a 
storm. 


[GGJ.n_48,02] This was also the situation of My followers who were overtaken 
by a storm in the middle of a long cleft and were now quickly surrounded by 
raging streams of water so that they could not move forward or backward. 


[GGJ.n_48,03] This would have been an opportunity to proof the power of their 
faith which resisted as long as the water was flushing around the rocks on which 
the disciples brought themselves into safety. However, when the water reached 
also up to there and was flooding, their faith strongly diminished and the fear for 
a miserable physical death became stronger. Their souls called out for help to 
God, but to the God Jehovah of their fathers, not to the One of whom they knew 
that He was embodied in Me so that their wailing and shouting faded away 
without being heard. 


[GGJ.ii_ 48,04] They already all grabbed each others hand and together they 
braced themselves against the water, which was rushing up to them, in order to 
keep the weak support under their feet when also the rocks began to move under 
the pressure of the water and they were in the greatest of danger. 


[GGJ.n_48,05] Then John called out aloud from the deepest of his fearful heart: 
“Lord and Master, save us, as You often have commanded the elements.” 


[GGJ.n_48,o6] And see, immediately the raging and the violence of the water 
stopped, and in a very short time My followers stood again on firm ground, 
although very wet but nevertheless unharmed. 


[GGJ.n_48,07] They thanked Me now deeply in their heart as their Savior but 
they discussed among each other why their first cry was left unheard since 
Jehovah and I are one and the same person. 

[GGJ.n_48,o8] Then John asked his brothers if they also thought about Me 
when they cried out at first, or only to the God of their fathers as a God outside of 
Me. 


[GGJ.n_48,09] They were all ashamed to acknowledge that in the fearfulness of 
their heart they indeed made that difference, and they then understood also very 
well why their crying did not have any result. So they immediately looked for Me 
and asked Me to forgive them 193 because of their offense. 


[GGJ.n_48,io] But I said to them: “What should I have to forgive you? If I did 
not want that your faith was tested in this way the water could not have 
surrounded you. But do believe with all the more conviction that He truly lives in 
Me, the One who rules the universe, and put aside the differences which your 
narrow minded Judaism still imposed on you, for no one can come to the Father 
than only through Me, the Son.” 


[GGJ.ii_48,ii] These words made them wondering again because if I lately 
pointed out the difference between the Son and the Father to them they still did 
not understand why My body was still not glorified but still belonged to the Earth. 

[GGJ.ii_ 48,12] Only after My resurrection their eyes were completely opened up 
as to why I did not and could not speak otherwise. They therefore spoke often 
among each other about this subject and they had to get rid of all the wrong ideas 
that were still in them, and they did this mainly when I was not with them. 


[GGJ.n_48,i3] It is easy to imagine that still many things that were wrong and 
old Jewish came up and that were similar to the prejudices of the temple, 
especially because they could no more witness any outer sign of My power 
anymore, which moreover, since they were very familiar with it, did not make 
much impression on My disciples anymore in the years that we were together. 


[GGJ.n_48,i4] Everyone who knows how important it is to give up something, 
which means a purification of the soul, will understand how necessary the 
isolation of My followers was who could not endanger themselves by what they 
said, but rather others who listened to them. So while being together, one 
improved the other, and when something went wrong I knew very well when the 
time had come for Me to speak again. But unripe ears would not have been 
allowed to hear My words nor those of My followers in order to prevent the 
unripe fruits to dry up and fall off. 


Chapter 49 

THE DISCIPLES CARE FOR THE LORD 


Many will be surprised how My disciples still could be in a dilemma and have 
doubts after so many teachings and proofs of My divinity, but this is because of 
the weak, human nature of which overcoming became for them more difficult 
than for you at the present time because everyone who somehow believes can now 
see My whole life in one glance and he has My overcoming of death as the first 
main point in mind while at that time a development of their souls was only 
possible with My way of development of which that main point was first the 
corner stone to confirm My teaching. 


[GGJ.n_49,02] Further on, My crucifixion and resurrection were the key to 
understand the Son of man and the Son of God. Since it was necessary to let My 
followers progress so that from then on they could stand on their own spiritual 
feet, such outer events were the means to promote their inner awareness. 


[GGJ.ii_49,03] Now the following thing happened: My followers entered into a 
discussion and exchanged again their opinion regarding why I was emphasizing 
again, as many times before, the difference between the Father and the Son in 
Me. They agreed with each other that the Father lived in Me and that My physical 
body and soul was called the Son. Then one of the 20 other followers came up 
with the thought that it was nevertheless difficult to understand how the Spirit of 
God can live in Me at the same time as a human being who has his human way of 
life, and was thus as it were enclosed while still ruling the universe. So whether I 
knew about ruling the universe or that perhaps the Spirit withdrew every now and 
then so that I then could only be a human being. And he also wondered about My 
body during sleep, if the Spirit of God was then also still in Me or not. 


[GGJ.n_49,04] At first these questions astonished the others because of the 
apparent great shortsightedness of the questioner. But then finally everyone 
noticed that there were also a few things that were not clear in themselves about 
this point. Especially the question what happens to Me during sleep aroused a few 
difficult objections. 


[GGJ.n_49,05] Andreas thought that it could be possible that I am only a human 
being when I am asleep, because on the Lake of Gennesaret it was only after I 
woke up that My divine power became active and so that everyone could have 
been surprised by a sudden physical death if no one would have woken Me up. 


[GGJ.ii_49,o6 ] Now there was an intense discussion to and fro after which they 
finally had to conclude that My body was probably as unprotected during sleep as 
that of any other human being and so the disciples thought that it would be 
necessary to watch over Me because one could not know whether the many 
hostile Jews might also not try, after so many vain attempts, to take Me by 
surprise at night and kill Me. But none of them thought about it to simply ask Me 
because their loving concern for Me thought that their vigilance was not an 
unimportant protection, and that it finally was only about the time that I was 
asleep. That My protection was not necessary when I was awake they knew by 
clear proofs. 


[GGJ.n_49,07] I let My followers free and I seemingly did not notice that in the 
isolated house there was now always a disciple that was on guard at night. 


[GGJ.n_49,o8] After a few days, I withdrew one evening after we took the 
evening meal, since I was tired, in order to rest earlier than usual while all My 
followers stayed together. The room that I used as My bedroom in the spacious 
castle was located at the end of the building so that one first had to pass through 
several rooms to reach it. But My followers sat together in a hall that was located 
in the middle of the house. 


[GGJ.ii_ 49,09] While they were now in a big discussion, there was suddenly a 
bright shining of fire in the empty rooms that were connected with My bedroom. 
Being frightened, the disciples ran to it and saw that the empty rooms were in full 
blaze so that it was impossible to reach Me and that neither anyone from there 
could come to them. Everyone was startled and ran around in confusion and tried 
to extinguish. In vain, the flames continued to devour, and according to My 
followers they also must have reached My room long ago. 


[GGJ.ii_49,oio] Being desperate, some tried to pass through the flames. But in 
vain, the floor of the room was collapsed and it was impossible to make a 
connection. Now the others thought that the smoke, which was extremely 
annoying, must already have suffocated Me in My sleep. But none of them wanted 
to retreat and leave the very dangerous hall before they were sure about My fate. 


[GGJ.ii_49,ii] In order to make an end to their fear and torment I slowly let the 
flames extinguish, and after some time it was completely peaceful. Fully 
frightened, the disciples climbed over burned up, smoking beams to My bedroom 
and saw that is was undamaged while I was quietly sleeping on a bed. This sight 
made them almost speechless, and none of them dared to disturb My apparent 
sleep. 


[GGJ.ii_49,12] Now I stood up, and immediately My followers assailed Me with 
questions whether I did not know what had happened. 


[GGJ.n_49,i3] I seriously looked at them and said: “You know who lives in Me, 
and you know that nothing can be hidden for Him. And what the Father knows, 
He also makes it known to the Son.” 


[GGJ.n_49,i4] The flames that injured you could not harm Me, just as little as all 
the persecutors of the hostile Jews. Only when this body will be surrendered with 
My will, will evilness have power over it. 


[GGJ.n_49,i5] Do you then not know that the Spirit is watching, also when the 
body is asleep, and do you not know that He takes care of His house? 

[GGJ.ii_49,i6] How can you be so foolish to think that a work of God, like the 
structure of this body of Mine, needs the protection of men? Can the instruments 
that are made by the hand of the Master protect the Master, or can a creation, 
who first received everything from the Creator, preserve the Creator Himself 
against an evil that He allows? 


[GGJ.n_49,i7] See how foolish your intervention was, even if it was out of love. 
So stop trying to protect Me. He who lives in Me knows ah things, and no one can 
resist His power. 


[GGJ.n_49,i8] Go now, and do not feel sad about My admonition which should 
not make you feel hurt. But be more and more aware of whom the actual Lord is, 
whether He is bodily asleep or awake.” 


[GGJ.n_49,i9] Now the disciples wanted to leave but they could not so easily go 
back over the burned gap as when they had crossed it when they were concerned 
about Me. So I called them once more to Me, and within a few moments the 
rooms looked as undamaged as before the fire so that they could now without any 
difficulty return to their hah. And they went quickly to rest, each one deeply 
absorbed in his own thoughts. 


Chapter 50 

THE REBIRTH OF THE SOUL 


The next morning, Simon Peter came to Me and said: “Lord and Master, we ah 
can see now very clearly that we acted wrongly since God Himself will certainly 
never need the help or care of men. But it is still not so clear how Your body can 
sometimes be in some sort of timely independence of Your inner Spirit so that out 
of Your words it sounds as if one time You are the eternal Spirit of God Himself in 
person and then again as if Your physical person is entirely independent and is 
only once in a while pervaded by Him. This is why we always come into a certain 
conflict in our viewpoints which you certainly will forgive us since we firmly 
adhere to You and believe in You but still do not completely understand Your 
inner nature. How is this now actually?” 


[GGJ.n_50,02] I said to him: “My dear Peter, you and also your brothers still do 
not understand many things because you did not yet reach the spiritual level in 
yourselves in order to understand this in itself simple process which I often 
explained to you. But you are here now to examine in yourselves what is still 
unclear on Me. 


[GGJ.ii_ 50,03] What is the use to always point out the difference between the 
Son of man and the Son of God if in yourselves you are not capable to know and 
to feel the difference between the spiritual and the physical man? 


[GGJ.n_50,04] Only after you will be completely reborn in the body will this 
question be solved to your full satisfaction. You all have already made important 
steps in that direction so that this goal is not far away from you anymore. But it is 
still not completely reached. 


rGGJ.n 50,051 But answer Me now a few questions so that you may better 
understand this important point. 


[GGJ.n_50,o6] Firstly: how do you experience your thinking and feeling? Is it 
outerly or innerly ? That means: can you only answer a question that is asked to 
you because you learned the answer with your memory from your teacher, or does 
your own inner ‘I’ answer the question by reasoning? 


rGGJ.n 50 ,Q 7 l You will say: ‘This can be both’. If man were only a machine, 
although provided with a self-conscious soul, he would only be able to think 
outerly. That means: to obtain knowledge by means of impressions of his memory 
which were only acquired by what he learned - somewhat like one trains an 
animal. To reason means however that the soul asks questions to an inner 
principle that lives in man and which answers questions that are asked and which 
also lives in the soul as spirit that is perfect as such, as I often told you. That is 
why a real activity of questions and answers can take place in the inner of man. 


[GGJ.n_50,o8] One will say: ‘Yes, if the spirit is perfect, then how come that 
often such enormous foolish conclusions can come up? Does the spirit then not 
give always the right answer?’ 


rGGJ.n 50 , 0 Ql The spirit does but since it is in man in the first place the life’s 
principle of the soul, this one can, as he is self-conscious, also act according to his 
nature like a mirror image. Even as a real mirror image cannot exist without the 
presence of an object which is exactly the same, so also the soul can only give his 
opinion freely when these come from the spirit as reflections. But, as a mirror 
image represents everything in reverse - exactly the reverse of the object but still 
real - this is also what happens here until they both seek to merge with one 
another. 


[GGJ.ii_50,io] Only he who has awakened his spirit to such degree that his soul 
does no more reflect earthly, reverse reactions, has reached the rebirth and 
stands in the full truth. It is of course not easy to break through those barriers 
because the earthly adjusted soul is more strongly attracted by the material- 
earthly body than by the spirit which influence is only weak and of which he 
gladly accepts the activity as his own work if he did not learn to see the difference. 


[GGJ.ii_50,ii] To break through those barriers is My and your task, as well as of 
all My followers, and the way to it you can find by your inner spirit and you need 
to let it speak. This is the only, one true teacher because it is connected with the 
universal Spirit of God and is a small image of it, and it therefore draws all truth 
only from Him. 


[GGJ.n_50,i2] Now when the soul has made himself completely subordinate to 
the nature of his spirit and has by that no more earthly wishes so that he solely 
strives to the spiritual and has therefore, as a self conscious soul, passed into the 
spiritual, then the more completed person has reached a level that was indicated 
by the Indian sages as ‘Nirvana’, thus a condition in which every will, based on 
fleshly, earthly tendencies, is destroyed and which eliminates every life in the 
flesh as material existence. That condition is possible in the material life and 
should even be reached so that total peace will come into the heart of man. 


[GGJ.n_50,i3] Now you all have almost reached that rebirth of the soul. 
However, over there in My Kingdom, when I will have ascended, there is still 
another rebirth, which is the one of the spirit, which will then consist of an 
inseparable community with Me. There will be the highest bliss of the children in 
the house of the Father and joys which no human heart can ever suspect because 
they are purely spiritual and of which not the smallest glimpse can be made 
understandable to you before that time. 


rGGJ.il 50,14! So most of all, strife to reach the rebirth of your soul so that your 
soul will learn to only look with the eye of the spirit and will know by that more 
and more himself and his origin. 


[GGJ.n_50,i5] But since I Myself, just like all of you, have to climb those steps in 
Myself as a human being - because I am the One who leads the way for humanity 
that, despite many messengers, always entangled themselves in errors - you 
finally will also understand that I, in order to clarify this climbing up to 
completion and make it understandable, cannot speak otherwise than I do now.” 


Chapter 51 

ADVICES TO ENNOBLE THE SOUL 


Peter said: “Yes Lord, I clearly can see that now and also understand more and 
more that Your human nature is actually completely the same as ours and that 
the difference lies only in the spirit in us. We all will surely do our very best to 
reach all the goals that You show us. But we still are greatly lacking when it comes 
to the rebirth of our souls. We are on the right way but when we are alone we 
repeatedly fall back which tempts us to do foolish things which we committed 
already many times as You have seen. How can we avoid these?” 


[GGJ.n_5i,02] I said: “First by acquiring the right power of faith, even when you 
do not see Me, for blessed are those who believe although they do not see. 
Secondly by making yourself free of every fear and with all power to love God of 
whom you know that He is in Me and whom you have recognized. 


[GGJ.n_5i,03] I surely know that you all love Me much, but this love concerns 
now more My person than My Spirit. The unshakable love which feels no more 
doubt at all and which does also not waver by things that you do not understand, 
you do not possess yet, but only a belief for which for the moment only My deeds 
are the basis, and this is still not a rock but mixed with loose soil that can still be 
washed away by the heavy rain of affliction. 


[GGJ.n_5i,04] Do not only believe when I am with you but believe and trust 
completely in My power also when I am physically not with you. Examine your 
souls to see where there is still something impure and cast it from you. 


[GGJ.n_5i,05] As long as you can discover a bad mood, irritation, discontent or 
impure thoughts within you there will still be doubt which prevents the living 
faith from gaining strength. All these bad habits are alien to the spirit. That is why 
it cannot permeate the soul, which must divest itself of all this spontaneously.” 


[GGJ.n_5i,o6] Peter said: “Yes Lord, this we all know very well, and we make 
effort to act according to Your words, but it is still very difficult to overcome 
oneself. And still we love You with all our heart and with all our strength.” 


rGGJ.11 51,07] I said: “This is all right. That is why I brought you to Ephraim so 
that you can purify yourselves and freely and by personal effort acquire the inner 
completion. So this is all right. Would you be My disciples if it was not My 
intention to lead you to the Father to serve Him just as I am serving Him now? 
Because the Father knows what He is doing and which instruments He chooses 
for Himself. What you still lack, you will acquire. And so strife for it. You will not 
lack the strength if you will ask for it.” 


[GGJ.n_5i,o8] Peter said: “Yes Lord, we very well know that You always give us 
the strength that we need if we ask for it. It is just that we all too often forget to 
ask because we consider ourselves to be strong already ourselves and think that 
we can overcome with our own strength. And this feeling of strength fills us with 
great confidence which changes very easily in remorse when some circumstance 
shows the very great weakness of the human heart and our instability, and this 
despite all good intentions. Should we then not try at all to do something with our 
own strength?” 


[GGJ.n_5i,09] I answered: “He who strives to unify with God will first try to 
fulfill His will subordinating his own, for only the energetic will of God in man 
and which has become active cannot and will never suffer shipwreck. But when 
man is self-willed and tries to carry out something without caring whether the 
intended action is in accord with God’s will, he need not be surprised when the 
result is not favorable to him. 


[GGJ.n_5i,io] That feeling of strength which you talked about is often nothing 
more than spiritual pride, feeling exalted above other human brothers and who 
therefore wants to accomplish something exceptional in order to satisfy his own 
vanity or also out of a lust to be admired by others. So beware of these urges, for 
those who adhere to Me must be poor of spirit, as you know, so that they receive 
everything from Me and truly see God. But those who think that they are 
spiritually rich are now exactly those who think to be perfect, brag about their 
self-conquest and become full of spiritual pride. 


[GGJ.ii_5i,n] Look at the Pharisees how they believe that only they are serving 
God, with all kinds of meaningless wisdom and stuff of words, yet they only serve 
themselves and their own welfare. It is purely impossible to let even the smallest 
teaching of wisdom of My Heavens flow into their heart, for it is completely filled 
with all kinds of riches of self-esteem of their soul, while it can only be given 
where there is total poverty. Do you and your brothers understand this?” 


[GGJ.ii_51,12] As happened many times, Peter was the spokesman of the 
others, and after he looked at the present brothers who all made approving 
gestures, he said: “Yes Lord, we understand this very well, for You often gave such 
teachings in similar words. But we would like to know something else from You. 


[GGJ.n_5i,i3] You spoke about a rebirth of the spirit and of the soul. This 
difference was striking to us because we never would have searched for a 
difference and thought that once the soul has completely pervaded the spirit that 
everything had been reached that could be reached. What is it all about? Would 
You like to explain this more clearly?” 


rGGJ.n 51,141 I said: “That which you can grasp now you will hear. But 
everything can only become completely clear to you in My Kingdom where you 
will find confirmation with your own eyes and senses. But not only for your sake 
but also for the sake of your followers you must know what I mean and what I 
want to indicate with the rebirth of the spirit. So listen. 


Chapter 50 

THE REBIRTH OF THE SPIRIT 


All those who, already on Earth, will follow Me and My words will reach that goal 
which I indicated to you so many times as the rebirth of the soul. So this is when 
the soul has become pervaded by the spirit by which he is already capable in the 
body to penetrate in all higher wisdom of the Heavens and become lord, not only 
over himself but with that also lord over his environment, yes even over nature 
and hidden powers, when he tries, out of love, to fulfill My will for the benefit of 
fellowman. The means to reach that goal are called: faith and true love for the 
fellowman. 


rGGJ.n 52,02! Such reborn people can and must also be very righteous people, 
such as there existed at all times and who achieved the highest completion of the 
soul, but therefore they had not necessarily reached communion with the 
personally active Spirit of God. 


rGGJ.n 52,031 This was also not possible up to now because the deity was still 
not personally and visibly present, except in Me. All righteous people who 
reached the rebirth of the soul before My physical life could despite that still by 
far not see the deity as you can. That is why their teachings show that penetrating 
in the highest completion seems like an ascension in infinity to them because God 


131 


 _L O _L 



 


 

Himself, as non-personal Being, means infinity in which the blowing of His power 
can spiritually be felt but to the soul it could not be made visible in a person at 
that time. 


[GGJ.ii_ 52,04] Not until after My death, when this body will be taken up as a 
garment of the almighty, infinite Deity Himself, will all those, who have left the 
physical life before this My time, be capable of living in everlasting community 
with the personal Deity and beholding it. And this in a city that I already showed 
to you when the 12 illuminated pillars frightened the people of Jerusalem at night 
and which represent the true heavenly Jerusalem - the eternal city of God. This 
communion and everlasting association of God with His children is the rebirth of 
the spirit. 


[GGJ.n_52,05] Many more will very well be able to reach the rebirth of the soul 
after Me and therefore will enjoy great bliss and happyness but without reaching 
this highest and last level. Many representatives of My Spirit descended to the 
Earth and showed the way to the lost people, how they could come to peace and 
inner enlightenment but without being capable to show the direct ways to Me 
because these were not opened yet. All who wanted to walk on the former ways in 
this manner can thus very well come to the rebirth of the soul but not in 
community with Me. 


[GGJ.n_52,o6] The latter is only possible by believing in Me, that I truly am the 
Christ, the anointed One to whom all power and glory of the Father is given, so 
that men may gain happiness and ultimate bliss through the Son. I am the Gate - 
there is no other. He who wants to walk on the ways to Heaven without wanting 
to know Me can reach a high degree of completeness but never come to clear, 
visible community with God Himself. Do you understand this now?” 


rGGJ.11 52,07! They all said: “Yes Lord, for this was clearly spoken. Who would 
not understand this?” 


[GGJ.n_52,o8] Now Peter thought again: “Lord, will now all of those who 
reached the rebirth, and who live there now really blissful, also reach the rebirth 
of the spirit, or is it possible that they will remain on the level of their 
completion?” 


rGGJ.11 52 ,oq1 I said: “You can answer this question yourself, for it is obvious 
that no one is forced. But when a country is divided by a large river and there 
comes a skilful architect who builds a bridge and then calls all those together who 
were not yet able to reach the other shore, to cross over with him to the other 
shore, will all follow him? The greatest part anyway, and those who left behind 
will after a certain time of waiting certainly also cross over when they will see that 
the first ones did not come back, and even more, when they will see that the other 
shore is brightened by sunshine and looks lovely. 


[GGJ.n_52,io] Look, such architect am I. And also after Me will everyone strife 
to find the way up to the bridge because his inner spirit will tell him: ‘There is a 
higher, more valuable thing than what you have reached yourself by your 
righteous life. Look for it.’ 


[GGJ.ii_52,ii] And every seeker who cast off the physical life will also be able to 
find this bridge, whether he became a righteous person by My teaching that is 
given to you or by a teaching of a former or later teacher who was awakened by 
Me. 


[GGJ.n_52,i2] Such righteous ones I will come to meet as a bridge toll keeper, 
and then they freely will pay their toll, which means: they accept the teaching: the 
Father is in the Son, and he who sees the Son sees also the Father. 


[GGJ.n_52,i3] So they also will be accepted just like those who walked on My 
ways since the beginning. 


rGGJ.il 52,14! Therefore you should not look down with contempt on the 
gentiles, for I say to you that among them there are more righteous people than 
there ever were among the people of the Jews, and that is also why the gentiles 
will be accepted and the Jews rejected.” 


[GGJ.n_52,i5] Peter said: “Lord, if there are such righteous people among the 
gentiles, how did they come to that righteousness?” 


[GGJ.n_52i6] I answered: “I already told you that they are always instructed by 
representatives of My Spirit, transmitting the light from My Heavens and 
instructing the people according to their ability of understanding. And above all, 
these representatives were teaching the descend into the inner of the spirit so that 
everyone who wanted to find the truth in himself would also be able to find it. 
And this is, as you know, the rebirth of the soul. I also often advised this 
descending to you as a useful means to make the soul free and clean of all the 
spots and stains of its selfishness so that it can come to Me. 



[GGJ.ii_ 52,17] Train yourself in this so that your inner eye will be more opened, 
and experience in yourselves about all the things that the spirit can reveal when it 
has become alive in you. How this can be done, you know very precisely from Me. 
So act accordingly.” 


[GGJ.n_52,i8] Now all the disciples withdrew and thought a lot about My words 
which they took greatly at heart. Especially Peter, who up to now was little 
concerned about the qualities that the spirit can give to the soul, was the one who 
was now very zealous to keep his spiritual eye open in order to know better 
himself and his environment. 


Chapter 53 

SPIRITUAL VISUALIZATION 


A few words have to be added here now about spiritual visualization for those 
who follow My ways and want to experience on themselves how much their soul is 
capable to be already developed in the body. It will not be taught here how one 
can acquire special, miraculous or magic qualities, nor will the recipe be given to 
only strife for these, but the way will be shown here how to overcome the multiple 
doubts of the heart which the soul feels as long as he has not loosened the bands 
of his flesh. This is the true goal: to be independent from the flesh with all its 
lusts, doubts and errors in order to feel good in the actual, real and true world 
wherein the soul must go after death, and to be able to enter it while being 
completely free and independent. 


[GGJ.n_53,02] It is obvious that when the constricting shackles of the flesh 
become looser, the life of the soul must of itself completely become noticeable. 
And all those who hear My Word, but who further on do not perceive anything of 
that inner life of the soul, are still completely stuck in their fleshly bonds. They 
are hearers but no doers of the Word. 


[GGJ.ii_ 53,03] Everyone who will cast off his shackles receives a clearer view on 
people and nature. First only in such a way that he thinks that his ability of 
perception is becoming much sharper. But it actually means that the spirit is 
stirred, receiving more freedom of movement. Then man should take the habit to 
look into himself, this means to recognize the images that his spiritual eye can 
see, independently from his physical eyes and can observe. Then, when he stands 
in the love for Me and continues to build on that basis, he will quickly acquire the 
qualities of the spirit which you call ‘clairvoyance’. But this is not a magic quality 
but a very natural one of the soul against which he can of course close off himself 
just like you can close off yourself in the body against the development of various 
qualities. 


[GGJ.ii_ 53,04] During sickness the connection between soul and body becomes 
often looser. The clairvoyance which then exists by the weakness of the body is a 
kind of unhealthy clairvoyance by which many things appear that are not correct. 
The life of the soul in a world that is completely strange to him is nothing unusual 
with sick people, and the many imaginations that appear by that are nothing else 
but corresponding images of the world of the soul. Corresponding images because 
the language in which the spirit speaks to the soul are not words but only 
complete ideas while words can only communicate those ideas with difficulty. 


[GGJ.n_53,05] The development of the ability to understand the language that 
you know - at least according to the word - as the language of correspondences is 
not only useful during lifetime but even necessary because otherwise the soul will, 
after the death of his body, feel like a stranger in the spiritual kingdom, coming 
into a completely strange country in which he cannot understand the language 
and where he can only make himself understandable with great difficulty. Only 
with this difference: that the inhabitants of that country understand the stranger 
but he does not understand the inhabitants who first have to adopt again to the 
laborious shackles of the souls’ life to be familiar again with the laborious 
physical language which became unusual and by which one can only make 
contact by means of words but not by a series of thoughts. 


[GGJ.n_53,o6] This is why spiritually advanced people often regret the 
impossibility to express their feelings in sufficiently clear words, or the 
impossibility to set out, through writing or speaking, the flow of their thoughts as 
quickly as the spirit shows them to the soul. All this would not be possible if that 
language of the spirit in quick images and series of ideas would not exist. 


[GGJ.n_53,07] So there is more than being able to communicate in word and 
writing, and let thus no one believe that a very highly developed written language 
or a highly developed orators’ talent is the most brilliant that the soul of man can 
express, for these are only very weak outflows of the inner striving of the spirit to 
share with the soul of what lies most perfectly hidden in the spirit. So let no one 
believe that he has achieved something special when he is considered a master in 
this outer communication. He is only a poor bungler compared to the richness of 
the inner master that does not display its talents to the outer. 
 

[GGJ.ii_53,o 8] The striving to let it speak in oneself as perfectly as possible by 
My power and by the love for Me means My way and to follow Me, for I went 
along the same way during My earthly life in the flesh, and just like any other 
human being I had to acquire it step by step with difficulty. - Let us return now to 
My followers. 


Chapter 54 
GOD’S HOLINESS 


PETER wrote My words deeply in his heart, and with a decisiveness that was 
typical for him he immediately went to work to develop his soul on those things 
that he still lacked. He directly withdrew himself from the others to be able to 
open his sinner eye and stayed for a few days almost invisible to all. 


[GGJ.n_54,02] Again it should be emphasized here that My disciples were 
together here to submit themselves to a kind of voluntary test, out of their own 
free will, independent from Me and without any outer force by the environment 
so that the already acquired qualities that were given to them by Me for their later 
calling as apostle could now become completely their own. Everything of what 
happened in Ephraim should be seen from this point of view. 


[GGJ.n_54,03] One evening Peter showed up again among the group of brothers 
of which everyone went on their own way of the inner life, for which reason his 
withdrawal was not so much noticed because he always was present at the regular 
meals and he came and went in all quietness. This time the disciples stayed longer 
together than usual. That was because of James’ question as to why God’s 
holiness could be offended by the sins of men since those sins were often the 
means for purification, and also, the possibility to sin was allowed by God. So 
there must be a special explanation for the theory of the temple since it was 
especially I who often associated with sinners and I never felt offended by the 
worst of sinners. 


[GGJ.n_54,04] Then there was a discussion going on among them in all kinds of 
ways by which came also forward of what I taught before. And everyone formed 
his very personal opinion about God’s holiness. Finally John explained in detail 
that the true meaning of the word ‘holiness’ is the great self-denying love of God 
which could however feel offended by the sin that resists that love, just like a good 
father would feel offended by his loveless children but for that reason he still will 00 
not feel angry. He will look for soft means as much as possible to eliminate that 
lack of love, and will only use increasingly more severe means when the soft 
means do not help. However not out of anger but solely out of love and for the 
right purpose. 


[GGJ.ii_ 54,05] All the disciples said that they agreed with these words but Peter 
added to this that God’s holiness does not only mean the great love of God but 
also the great wisdom by which He established the whole creation in great, 
perfect effectiveness. Not to disrupt this order, which contained the effectiveness 
in itself, was the holiest duty of man. But it was precisely in that area that 
mankind sinned so infinitely because they were against this order and so they 
also tried to destroy the effectiveness of the laws of nature to their own loss. This 
is how the flood took place because the order was disturbed, and with that, also 
the effectiveness which the mountains fulfilled as a weight on subterranean water 
basins, because the Hanochites blew up the mountains. And so man is sinning 
even now against the order, and by that he offended God’s holiness in the order 
by misusing his body and by indulging in gluttony and fornication by which the 
body became unsuitable to be used as a seat for a healthy soul. To recognize the 
order in which we live was an important step to the rebirth, and therefore he 
realized how necessary these days are to descend into his inner self because only 
when he searches into himself will it be possible to be taught by God and know 
the truth. 


[GGJ.n_54,o6] Then the others asked if that was what he did. Peter confirmed 
this and explained that he did this with great zeal during these days 210 and that 
he was also convinced to have found the way now to become a real disciple of our 
Lord and Master. Although he was convinced that all the brothers took the last 
words of the Lord at heart and were striving to reach the near goal, he felt a 
strong urge to describe his observations because some could personally benefit 
from it, or which could also be useful to him, Peter. 


Chapter 55 

THE WAY TO INNER COMPLETION 


THE brothers asked him again to comment on his ideas and experiences, and 
Peter began: “Dear brothers, soon it will be 3 years that we have been steady 
followers of the Lord who let us enter into all the wonders of His Word, and we do 
not doubt at all whom we truly have personally amongst us. But despite the fact 
that I can see this truth and am aware to live directly near to the One who is the 
Creator of us all, I still could not completely succeed to overcome the gradually 
increasing doubts that whisper to me: ‘All your knowledge and efforts are useless 
because you will never be able to reach that purity anyway that would give you 
somehow the right to stay near to Him who really is without fault.’ This 
awareness of sinfulness that still adheres to us all has shed many tears from my 
remorseful heart, and it is only because the Lord spoke to me with love that I was 
raised and filled with new courage to take up the seemingly useless work. 


[GGJ.n_55,02] I also succeeded quite well to unshakably keep, as a very firm 
possession, my faith that in our Lord and Master lays the only example for 
completion, but up to now I did not succeed to believe that I can reach even the 
lowest level of that completion. However, I succeeded to establish in myself the 
firm will for it, so that with that firm intention I would not give up reaching the 
distant goal by the awareness of my personal unworthiness. 


[GGJ.ii_ 55,03] But now I realize that the examination of the laws of the order is 
a striving anyway by which it is really much easier for us - at least for many - to 
purify the soul of the many impurities, for when one’s eye is capable to recognize 
the outer, wise arrangements that form the means for the education of the soul, 
will also very quickly penetrate to the actual, inner goal of those outer 
arrangements, and his heart will at first by filled with amazement, admiration 
and awe and will then certainly have to change into the love for the almighty 
Being, for He established here in His holy order the greatest effectiveness for the 
salvation and progress of the whole universe of which the climax lies in that one 
goal, namely to form beings who can work and create in happy community with 
the Spirit of God. 


[GGJ.ii_ 55,04] Moreover, that knowledge will also be a stimulation to leave 
everything behind that is contrary to the order that is needed to reach this highest 
goal, and by that, the soul will strive to be good and live righteously in God’s eyes. 
Only the greatest fools and devils in human form can resist against the known 
laws to their own physical and spiritual disadvantage. 


[GGJ.n_55,05] Look, dear brothers, this point of view guided me already for a 
long time, but only here I have reached the goal that enables me, with open eyes, 
out of free will - and not only after the Lord has opened my sight by the power of 
His will - to recognize the outer laws of nature that clothes the most exalted inner 
laws of love, and by that I hope to have made good progress in my own 
development.” 



 

[GGJ.ii_55,o 6] Andreas asked what he had done to receive that inner sense of 
sight. He himself did not think it to be important to also have the outer sense of 
sight because understanding the Word was to him superior, and this inner, 
spiritual sight was to him more important than all the knowledge of the outer 
laws of nature, but that everyone should evaluate this according to his own 
conviction and therefore in no way he wanted to say that Peter’s striving was not 
good. 


[GGJ.n_55,07] Peter thought that it was not difficult to go that way because only 
faith in God and willpower was needed to penetrate into the object which one 
wanted to examine. Then while viewing the outer form appears at the same time 
also the inner form, and the spirit 212 shows then also clearly the laws that 
become visible by this observation. 


[GGJ.n_55,o8] It was furthermore obvious that by viewing the many things that 
come along, the soul should not be just satisfied to receive these outer abilities 
without letting the voice of the Spirit clearly sound in him. This should always go 
together and then the development of these soul’s qualities with a healthy body 
would certainly not be wrong. 


[GGJ.n_55,09] So he discovered for instance how plants build themselves up, 
and by that he clearly saw how the soul substance of the plant was also a being 
completely enclosed in itself but still capable for further development like a 
human being himself. When formerly he only saw plants as an offshoot from the 
living Earth - somewhat like the hairs that grow on the body of a human being - 
he now knew that this is not so but that every little plant, although imperfect, 
represents a complete soul that is enclosed in itself which also builds its body up 
just like the completed soul of a human being. Although he understood from 
earlier explanations of the Lord how the human soul came into being by the 
visible world, but he never had such accurate detailed view which he is able to 
bring it back at each moment, and many of the things that he felt were true before 
had become now really true to him. 


[GGJ.n_55,io] Now there were many questions, especially from the disciples 
who did not belong to the 12, who still wanted to receive a lot of clarifications 
from Peter but which can be left out here because they are not vitally important. 
Just the remark should be made that during these discussions the question came 
up whether the still imperfect soul elements - which became already visible to 
many at moments when their spiritual sight was opened - were conscious and if 
on the lower levels of the inorganic bodies an ability to feel went hand in hand 
with that consciousness - which could be assumed - and whether this was 
necessary for certain purposes. 


 


Chapter 56 

A WORD ABOUT SENSIVITY 


PETER gave now the following explanation about the things that he obtained 
through his observation: 


[GGJ.n_56,02] First he saw how the form was built by the soul, always with the 
purpose of the further development but not to only have the best possible 
pleasant house. It is about like when a traveler set a goal and tries now zealously 
to reach it but he always takes into account how much power he can give to his 
body here and there to reach his goal. The soul sets here also a goal, namely to 
reach a certain maturity which can however only be attained by means of the 
form. Therefore the accepted form suits with the goal and this has been chosen 
according to the kind of character. 


[GGJ.n_56,03] From this can be concluded that already on the very lowest levels 
a self-consciousness is present, no matter how small it is, otherwise a spiritual 
development is not possible. But on the lowest levels there is no physical ability to 
feel. This is only the result of a more developed soul’s life and begins on the 
border line of those creatures that possess a circulation of juices. 


rGGJ.11 56,04! Peter: “So for instance plants have an ability to feel, although in 
a low degree, but this is already much higher on the lowest levels of the animal 
world. 


[GGJ.ii_ 56,05] The circulation of juices is a striving to fill the organism with life 
from a middle point and to develop a self-consciousness because this concentric 
construction supposes a life’s kernel which in the case of man can be found in his 
heart. Plants have still no heart organ but in their inner marrow they have a life’s 
principle which manifests itself by striving to feed and maintain the tree or the 
plant, and this through a suitable circulation of juices in an organism of extremely 
fine tubes coming into motion in spring and the autumn. 


[GGJ.n_56,o6] However, the circulation always needs an activator in the form of 
nerves which are still very coarse with plants, but with animals they become finer 
all the time. These nerves have always in common that they are activating 
transmitters of outer and inner impulses, protecting themselves against harmful 
impulses by suitable organs and surrender to the influence of those that are 
useful. That is why a flower opens and closes its calyx, and that is why an animal 
runs away or allows a beneficial influence. 


[GGJ.n_56,07] So it seems without doubt to me that everything that is created 
receives only the ability to feel after the activity of the soul has been developed 
enough to bring at the same time to awareness the desire for further 
development. And this desire is the driving love that the Lord has given as a soft 
urging means to everyone and by which the purpose to transform the universe 
will be reached - without force but only by one’s own free decision to walk also on 
the road of completion. And this driving force is the Spirit from God that can then 
become alive in man after having accepted the form, standing then before God as 
a conqueror who broke through the outer form and let it as it were disappear in 
himself.” 


Chapter 57 

THE LORD AND EPHRAIM 

AFTER the disciples had declared that they agreed with Peter’s explanation 
while still adding a few personal opinions, John began to speak and explained to 
his brothers that especially My loving care is always attentive to reach the goal 
with the greatest of certainty for the individual, and that it is also mainly that end 
goal which determines the way that the individual should go towards his 
development to become a human being. But since for very wise reasons every 
person has a different personality, also the soul of every human being is guided 
differently up to his complete development. That is why a general, but not a 
specific universal fixed law can be noticed as to which way a developing soul 
should take, because only God knows the end goal, and no one else can know for 
sure - not even the very individual himself - what kind of position in the service 
of God he can and will reach. 


[GGJ.n_57,02] Therefore, dear brothers”, as John continued his speech, “you 
should strive for the right kind of love and humility, more than for all the 
knowledge, so that the Lord will be able to lead you unhindered. You should not 
want anything else but only His love, then you will reach the greatest knowledge, 
and that is: to take up residence in God’s heart, where you can then observe 
everything, not by yourself, but by God’s love by which the scales will fall from 
your eyes.” 


 

[GGJ.ii_ 57,03] While the disciples were still discussing this and that concerning 
this subject that was brought up, there was a noise in the big hall, coming from 
the window opening as if someone tried to hold on to it and was in danger of 
falling down. The disciples ran quickly to it and saw there a man hanging on a 
baluster and who obviously listened to what was discussed but by which he lost 
his balance and was now at risk of falling down. He was pulled up and kindly 
asked if he did not hurt himself and how he actually came to that rather high 
window opening. 


[GGJ.n_57,04] The man who first reacted a bit stubborn, like a criminal who 
was caught, became soon more friendly because he did not see any displeased 
faces that were pointed at him, and he said: “Dear friends, I realize now that I was 
very wrong about you and I sincerely ask you to forgive me for all the things that I 
did to you with my words, although you do not know that. But allow me to let you 
know more precisely what brought me here and why I almost had a fatal accident. 


[GGJ.ii_ 57,05] Look, I am an inhabitant of the city of Ephraim and I observed 
you already for a long time since you were here and I always wondered what you 
were actually doing within these walls, and also who you actually are. Some of my 
family members and friends said that you are Essenes who commit sorcery here 
and plan a new conspiracy against the Romans in Jerusalem for which this is an 
ideal place. Others thought that you must probably be sorcerers who can do a lot 
of things - for example also the unusual fast restoration of this castle - but no 
conspirators because this does not go together with your friendly, open character. 


[GGJ.n_57,o6] I laughed about the thought that you might be sorcerers because 
I do not believe these things at all, for I know that everything on 216 Earth 
happens in a natural way and I decided to search for myself to know who and 
what you really are. So I often went on my way at night to walk around this house 
and see how I could satisfy my curiosity. But I was always kept away by a strange 
fearfulness to enter with you. 


[GGJ.n_57,07] But today my desire was so strong that I wanted to penetrate 
your secret at all cost, and so I prepared to intrude. There is a tree before the 
window where you caught me, and the branches are very wide. I took along a few 
strong sticks with me and laid them from the branches on the window frame and 
so I easily could come here by means of that bridge and listen to your 
conversation. Since you discussed with each other with such great attentiveness 
you did not discover me sooner, and I was so much captured by what you said 
that I completely forgot that I was an intruder and would have preferred to jump 
inside to be with you. Since I completely forgot myself I did not pay attention 
anymore to my light bridge, and all of a sudden I bumped against the sticks which 
then fell down. In my attempt to prevent that, I almost fell down myself if you 
would not have come quickly to help me. 


[GGJ.n_57,o8] Now I ask you, dear friends, to forgive me, for you will surely 
believe me when I say that I am not a thief or criminal intruder. Anyway, it would 
be difficult to deceive you - this is what I heard from your wisdom.” 


[GGJ.n_57,09] Peter said: “Dear friend, what is there to forgive since we all 
know very well that it was less your curiosity but more your inner spirit that drove 
you to us. So it will be far from us to think that you had something criminal in 
mind. But come now, come and sit with us, strengthen yourself and let us talk 
with each other as it befits sincere and true men. If you want to know something 
from us then ask. We certainly will like to answer you.” 


[GGJ.n_57,io] The Ephraimite who had lost now his fear completely, went to sit 
by the disciples, strengthened himself and then he soon asked without shame all 
kinds of things: where we came from, what we wanted here and why we actually 
chose to stay within these walls, and also a lot of other personal things about the 
disciples who 217 answered him also very openly. 


[GGJ.ii_57,ii] When he now knew that My followers were disciples of the 
Nazarene who was well-known to him, he immediately asked for Me and 
absolutely wanted to meet Me. Peter rebuked him for his fiery nature and said 
that he should have patience, for none of them knew if their Master would allow 
this. 


[GGJ.n_57,i2] On this, the Ephraimite said boldly: “Friends, I always went 
immediately to the source and never searched for a long time at the branches of a 
river when it was important to penetrate to the core of something. I suspected 
that there certainly had to be something special about you all, and it was also my 
wish for already a long time to come to know the Savior and to hear from Him 
personally the words which I only could obtain by means of detours. Is it then not 
very understandable that with all my might I am trying to meet Him as soon as 
possible, especially now that my heart longs so fervently for Him? Can you order 
your child to stay far away from you when he wants to hug you? I know very well 
from the Scripture, and from many other things that have happened now, who 
Jesus of Nazareth actually is. And it actually was also my inner feeling to come to 
know something about Him here that drove me to this place, and therefore it is 
true what you said that it was the spirit that drove me and not my curiosity. 

 

[GGJ.ii_ 57,13] But if it is really so that the King of Zion resides here, about 
whom David and all the prophets prophesized, then He also will not be opposed 
that a simple man, who brings only a heart full of the highest love and nothing 
else but that love, will knock on His door asking Him to come in. I believe that I 
so well know the highest Spirit, who has now taken up residence in a body, that 
He knows exactly what happens here and that He expects Me to receive my 
offering of love.” 


[GGJ.n_57,i4] Peter, being very surprised, said: “Just listen, friend, you are 
speaking here a language that is at least very unusual to our ears, for we never 
met someone who, without knowing the Lord, spoke about Him in this way. How 
do you actually know so well who He is?” 218 


[GGJ.n_57,i5] The Ephraimite said: “Well, should this not be immediately 
clear to everyone if he has eyes to see and ears to hear? Both of these bodily 
organs are still in very good condition with me, and so also my reason and 
certainly also my heart that knows how to speak a much clearer language than the 
reason. So I opened up all my sense organs and came to know that which others 
could not discover by the most obvious proofs. 


[GGJ.n_57,i6] Must one always have to see to believe? Must one always have to 
visit other countries to believe that they exist? Certainly not. Well now, friend, 
this is how it is with me, you see? What I heard, after thoroughly checking it, was 
sufficient to me to believe, and therefore I know now also who Your Master is, 
and I am completely convinced that I also will find in Him what I was looking for 
and what I firmly believe about Him.” 


[GGJ.n_57,i7] When the Ephraimite had said that, I came into the hall and 
called out to him: “Blessed are those who believe and did not see! And so you are 
welcome with Me as the last of all those who only came to Me by My word. And 
stay from now on with Me so that your faith will be crowned. Your name is 
Ephraim and from now on you will be a pillar for Me as a good support for the 
construction of My Kingdom. And you all should take an example at him so that 
you may learn what it means to live from the heart and only follow its will and 
feelings.” 


[GGJ.n_57,i8] Now Ephraim rushed to Me, completely overtaken by his feelings. 
And now follows one of those scenes that were described many times and which is 
the result of the love of a child who recognizes his Father, greeting Him in blissful 
happiness. 


[GGJ.ii_ 57,19] After this scene and when I had strengthened Ephraim, I 
explained to My disciples that now the last one was won, of those who descended 
from the universe to the Earth to be a witness of My earthly lifetime, to be a 
support for My Kingdom and that so the number was full of those who were 
called to become teachers for My ‘school of the spirit’ which the Son of man came 
to build and seal by His example. 


[GGJ.n_57,2o] Once more the disciples were exhorted to hold fast to what 219 
they had seen and heard and to well use the short time to make them really strong 
for the future and to be able to remain conquerors of themselves and by that also 
with respect to the people. 


Chapter 58 

LEAVING EPHRAIM. GOING TO BETHANY. 


NOTHING really important happened during the following time. We lived very 
quietly and regularly, and now that a heavy cold came into Palestine that was 
strongly felt in the rough region from the mountains, the disciples were more 
than at other times comfortably together in the protecting house, fervently 
discussing and asking questions. They were all seriously making effort to rightly 
develop themselves in the spirit, and therefore many things were discussed again 
regarding Me and My teaching. It has no sense to repeat this since it was often 
said in a different manner. 


[GGJ.n_58,02] Just one thing must be mentioned here. They noticed that the 
temperature of this winter was unusually low for Palestine, and they were looking 
for a reason. Then they saw in a clairvoyant state that the country was covered 
with the already often mentioned spirits of peace - elementary spirits whose task 
it is to supervise the order of all the earthly conditions. So they saw how these 
were zealously busy to as much as possible catch the ascending hot-tempered soul 
particles and to soften them down. That was a great battle in nature that could be 
strongly felt by the already mentioned cold. 


[GGJ.n_58,03] They asked Me why this battle was happening during this time, 
and I explained to them briefly that this was very closely related to the end of My 
mission. Now the ascending elements of anger that were awakened by the 
resistance of the lost son were still held under control by force so that the Work 
would not be disturbed and that the people would not go to ruin, because by their 
sins and by the hardening of their souls which is the result of that, they made 
themselves very inclined to absorb them. Before the closing of the gate, before the 
measure will be full to the point that it is overflowing, mercy will still try to 
prevent everyone from bringing himself to ruin. But if the last great warning will 
not be heeded, the law will come into force and the consequences of all sins will 
terribly come into effect. 


rGGJ.il 58,04! This is what will happen to the Jews. If they will not change their 
attitude and will not close up their soul to prevent receiving and taking up the 
many elements of anger by turning away from the ways that were followed until 
now, these elements will not be stopped anymore and with this the downfall will 
break loose over the people and the country.” 


[GGJ.n_58,05] After we had spent almost 3 months in Ephraim, one day one of 
Lazarus’s helpers, who was secretly sent, came to us and wanted to speak with 
Me. 


[GGJ.n_58,o6] I let him come to Me, and he said (the helper): “Lord and 
Master, Lazarus, who was revived by You, sends me to You to ask for Your advice 
and help. The priests of the temple are now, since he has been raised from the 
dead, more defiant than ever and threaten to curse him if he will not confess that 
he did not die, because it truly never happened before that a dead person came 
back. They threaten him to drink the cursed water to prove to what extent God is 
with him. But Lazarus knows their cunningness and that in this case they will give 
him a very special water which will certainly kill him for the second time. But now 
he does not know if he, by trusting in You, must deliver himself to them or that he 
should now completely separate himself from the temple which was nevertheless 
established by God.” 


rGGJ.11 38,07! I said to him: “Say to My dear Lazarus that he should seek God 
where he thinks that He can be found. If he know that He lives in the temple, then 
he should do what the temple wants, but if he knows that Jehovah does not live 
there, then why does he ask for the temple and its priests? I prefer those children 
who unite in their heart with the Father and listen there to what He advises them 
to do. Go and tell this to your lord.” 


[GGJ.n_58,o8] The messenger, who was one of Lazarus’s most trustful ones, 
took this message immediately to him, upon which Lazarus did not hesitate one 
moment, dissociated himself from the temple and threatened his tormentors to 
become a Roman citizen and put himself completely under the protection of 
Rome if they would still bother him. Then the priesthood left him alone because if 
this threat was carried out, every opportunity for the future possession of his 
goods would be lost for them while in this way they were still hoping to reach 
their goal along crooked ways. 


rGGJ.n 58,oq1 Now gradually the time came that the cold weather in Palestine 
went away and the first preparations for the Passover became visible. At that 
time, many Jews made a pilgrimage to Jerusalem. They put their house in order 
so that during their absence nothing would come in disorder. And so, also in 
Ephraim there was a great activity visible among the inhabitants who prepared 
themselves to be able to spend some time in the nearby Jerusalem. 


rGGJ.n 58,10! With this, the time had come that My body had to be offered and 
the soul was seized with sadness and the foretaste of the great suffering that 
awaited Me. But at the same time he was overwhelmed with the consciousness of 
the great task that had to be fulfilled, and he complied with the will of the Father. 
The disciples saw that battle and, being worried, they asked Me what was going 
on with Me. But I sent them all back and said to them that soon everything will 
become clear. 


rGGJ.n 58,11! We still had a few days to spend in Ephraim. Therefore, I 
gathered My followers and said to them that they should prepare for the trip 
because we would go to Lazarus to take up residence with him. 


rGGJ.n 58,12! Peter warned Me again against the temple servants, and I said to 
him: “Now the time has come that the Son of man will be found weak, and His 
enemies will succeed to overpower Him - to their own judgment but to the 
salvation of the world.” 


rGGJ.n 58,13! Peter was very upset about this and told My words to the brothers 
who were also worried about Me. And since that hour, Peter always carried 
secretly a sword, prepared to offer his life for Me if the servants of justice would 
come to capture Me. 


rGGJ.n 58,14! Now the day came to say goodbye. I gave our castle with 
everything in it to the leader of the city, blessed him, and through him also the 
community, and I called the disciples together. We quickly went to the main road 
that led to Jerusalem because we still wanted to be with Lazarus that same day in 
order to take up residence there for the last time before My earthly lifework 
would end. 
 


Chapter 59 

WHY WARS ARE ALLOWED 


AFTER a walk of several hours, we reached the road that led from Jericho to 
Jerusalem, and we had the opportunity to take a little rest because a big group of 
Roman soldiers, who changed quarters and would be sent back to Rome, 
occupied the road. So we went to sit at the side of the road which we had to follow 
to reach Bethany, and we let the group march by. 


[GGJ.n_59,02] My disciples watched those robust, strong men who all looked 
tanned and robust. They belonged to the selected troops who were privileged to 
stay for the winter in Jericho, which was a world city at that time. James asked 
Me if these people really enjoyed their profession as a soldier and if the spirit, 
which was also living in them, is not stirred to make it clear to them that war 
means a lack of brotherhood and that all kinds of vices were the result of that. 
Finally the question was asked to Me why I actually allow wars by which so many 
prospering lives and their future are destroyed and the souls will become cruel 
and often completely degenerated. They all looked at Me while asking this 
question because this was never directly asked to Me. 


[GGJ.ii_59,03] So I asked them all to come and sit closer to Me so that I did not 
have to speak too loud and catch the attention of those who were marching by. 
And I said the following: “When you look upon all the things that you can see in 
life, it is always necessary to never judge these on the outer but always on the 
inner actual core. Material outer things and spiritual inner things, this means 
corresponding things can apparently be contradictory with one another because 
their poles are often opposite to each other, yes they have to stand as completely 
opposite concepts against each other despite the fact that the one cannot exist 
without the other. If these contrasts are really catching your eye you think that 
you have discovered unexplainable contradictions, but to the eye of the spirit this 
is not so at all. This is for instance the case here. 


[GGJ.n_59,04] A Roman soldier is allowed to murder by his profession. How is 
his outer human position - which is certainly not according to My teaching of 
peace - related to his inner human being, which is also from God and has to 
return to God? How is it possible, you ask, that I allow a soul, endowed with the 
godly spark of the spirit, to become entangled in such wrong things? 


[GGJ.n_59,05] You think that there is no explanation, because even if I refer to 
the free will of man, by which in his outer position he can do what he wants, you 
will ask: ‘Is it for You then really necessary to allow so much freedom to the 
people that they are using it for murder and manslaughter, and would it not be 
better to at least restrict that freedom in such a way that it would not be misused 
for so much unreasonable grief and sorrow on Earth?’ Yes, you will ask: ‘Can the 
deity, who is the true Love, quietly look at such immense disaster and terrible 
misery which people inflict upon themselves without being afraid or wanting to 
stop it? Is the loving deity not an insensitive deity who experiences some kind of 
joy by quietly watching how His creatures devour each other? No human being 
could quietly watch so much misery if he would have the power to act, because 
even his compassion would force him to jump upon it and stop the fighting 
groups with holy seriousness. Then why does the deity not do this while He rules 
over all powers?’ 


[GGJ.n_59,o6] Look, this is what many wavering souls, in whom already much 
of My clear light has flown, are wondering, and then they begin to doubt the true 
love and even the existence of a God of love, being lost in all kinds of abysses of 
doubt, and finally they leave the true faith. 


[GGJ.ii_ 59,07] But I will give you a light that will sufficiently illuminate all those 
questions. So listen. 


[GGJ.n_59,o8] At first we have to look at how a human being behaves towards 
another human being, and then how he, while he lives in matter, behaves towards 
God - or to say it in different way: to what are his ideas inclined with regard to 
the visible and the invisible? 


[GGJ.n_59,09] Now it is very natural that a simple human being, whose soul is 
still undeveloped, will at first direct his thoughts only to the outer which 
surrounds him, and also only make an opinion according to what he sees and 
hears. The purely outer manifestations will at first attract him. He will evaluate 
this, draw his conclusions, and from the experiences that he acquired he will 
know how to make the outer environment useful to him. Only after he came to 
the point that he can control the outer of the natural events, his reason will urge 
him to ask for the why and will begin to search for it. The course of the 
development in the material world is however always such that first the outer 
cover is examined and after that the spiritual core is often peeled out from it with 
great difficulty. 


[GGJ.n_59,io] However, you know that the development of the animal kingdom 
as well as of the preceding plant kingdom is based on the destruction of the outer 
form, despite the prevailing inner life’s principle that strives for perfection. This 
outer example of nature will of course not remain hidden for a human being 
whose soul is not yet that developed. Yes, it is present in him as a soul’s power 
that has to be overcome since during his course of life he possesses the urge to 
destroy. So he imitates it in so far that he claims the right of the strongest and 
also practices it as far as he is in a condition that still hinders the inner 
development of his soul. Only in times when the development of the soul is put 
forward by which in a certain way the purely outer, material observation is 
considered as a conquered aspect, the hardness of the soul cannot appear 
anymore and the right of the strongest can entirely disappear in man. Then the 
right of the enlightened human spirit comes into action which is much more 
invincible than that first physical force. 225 


[GGJ.ii_59,ii] All those soldiers stand however on the level of the purely outer 
observation of nature which teaches them the right of the strongest. They are also 
not concerned about the development of their soul and so they imitate that 
struggle in nature, and for the moment they absolutely do not feel any emptiness 
in themselves. Yes, besides that they can even be very good men, even 
goodhearted, as long as they do not have an imaginary enemy before them in the 
image of another soldier from another country, eager to go to war and opposing 
each other as embittered enemies as soon as the trumpet will call for war. 


[GGJ.n_59,i2] However, I have to allow this education because the recognition 
of the inner core is only possible by the penetration of the hard outer shells, and 
the human spirit cannot be awakened in any other way than by experience. 


[GGJ.n_59,i3] ‘Experientia docet’ [GGJ.n_59,experience teaches] is the means 
here, and you know how true this saying is, because a disciple learns through 
experience more than by a hundred unproven rules that are learned by heart. The 
Earth is a school where spirits have to become wise through experience. 
Therefore, the most various possibilities are given to them here to gain experience 
one after the other to let the spirit mature quickly. And how the totally difficult, 
bitter and unpleasant experiences, that are like a wild mountain creek, have to be 
restrained to become a quietly streaming, calm river, is shown by My teaching. 
And My life must and always will be an example that shows how all experiences 
will help to bring the spirit in man close, yes very close, to God. 


[GGJ.ii_59,14] So if you neglect your experiences you will never become wise 
construction workers in the Kingdom of God, because to Me, man must always be 
educated along practical ways. However, My voice can mostly only clearly sound 
in the soul of man when the soul has turned more inward through many bitter 
experiences of all kinds and has turned away from the outer. 

 

[GGJ.ii_59,15] So if mankind wants to go through life by outer fights and 226 
wars, by which the only important thing is to maintain or to acquire as much as 
possible a position of power between two countries, then experience will teach 
very soon how little happiness and satisfaction as well as inner spiritual 
development there is possible when screamings of war are roaring through the 
countries, undermining all joy of life. 


[GGJ.n_59,i6] This is why in later times war will be considered as an absurdity 
which man has to abhor and not as a glorious situation while now they still expect 
honor and glory from it. And war will completely disappear. After having turned 
away from these outer fights, human race will turn to the inner, and everyone 
will, by the victory over his inner enemy, be more glorious to Me than the most 
victorious commander in the eyes of his emperor. 


[GGJ.n_59,i7] But for this understanding, experience is necessary, and the way 
goes through many hardships and errors. This school is the one and only that 
truly allows a free decision-making of the human soul. That God Himself can look 
at this is simply because the goal here stands higher than all the other things. The 
method to reach the goal is however very wise and it always carries the certain 
result in itself. 


[GGJ.n_59,i8] If a father has an unruly child who is not much inclined to obey 
his words and commands, he will give him the opportunity by some bad 
experience to seriously run into something, but at the same time he will also try to 
as much as possible soften the bad consequences. This is also the case between 
God and men. God will always seek out the means that are soft, but when they are 
without result, He must use the strongest means to keep humanity on the way 
that leads to the goal of peace and pure happiness. 


[GGJ.ii_ 59,19] However, when someone does not want to walk these ways 
because he disregards everything that comes on his way with this means of 
education, it is very natural that this contempt must finally bring him to ruin 
because he absolutely does not want to become wise by some loss but he even 
directly challenges every obstacle that he experiences so that he easily can lose his 
life by not observing the most simple rules of vigilance which are to a wise person 
clear of itself. But how can the deity be responsible for which the individual 
person is guilty himself by his own conduct? So He is not cruel, nor is He inclined 
to feel any pleasure for the suffering of His creatures, but He only is forced to 
hold back His love and let wisdom prevail for the sake of the goal. 
 


 

[GGJ.ii_59,2o] With this, you have again an explanation of what was often said 
to you in similar form. So look at the outer things only from their inner relation 
so that you will no more stumble upon all kinds of doubts and contradictions.” 


Chapter 60 
BARABBAS 


WHILE the disciples were still expressing their opinion about what they had 
heard, we saw that a number of men, obviously prisoners, were taken between a 
troop of soldiers. These several people acted contrary to the laws of Rome and 
had to be brought now to Pilate in Jerusalem to be sentenced according to the 
laws of Rome. 


[GGJ.n_6o,02] One of them was heavily bound between 2 soldiers that walked 
with a drawn sword next to him, ready to hit him down at any attempt to escape. 


[GGJ.n_6o,03] Philip asked Me what that furious looking man had actually done 
and who he was. 


[GGJ.n_6o,04] I answered him: “He also is an instrument of God, just like all of 
you are, even though he did not put his qualities in the service of the Father. He 
must serve to glorify the Son, just as you are called to spread His work.” 


[GGJ.ii_6o, 05] The others were surprised and asked Me what I meant. 


[GGJ.ii_6o,o6] I did not give them an answer to that question because very soon 
the facts would give them the answer. 


[GGJ.n_6o,07] The prisoner, who was taken away and sharply guarded, was a 
leader of the predatory inhabitants of the desert who did not want to submit to 
the laws of the Romans and who had so many hiding places in the desert that the 
Roman justice could not grab them, just like the tribes that are now staying in the 
south of Palestine and in the east of the Jordan, living there independently and 
who mock the Turkish authority. 


[GGJ.ii_6o,o8] The name of this man was Barabbas, was very audacious and 
reckless and involved in already many fights with the Romans when they sent out 
troops to capture the leader. He was famous amongst the people because of his 
recklessness by which he always came safely through all dangers so that all kinds 
of stories arose about his personality, as also often happened in later centuries 
with these kinds of characters. 


[GGJ.n_6o,09] Despite his raids of robbery he was considered to be someone 
with a noble character who never hurt the little man and would protect him as far 
as his power would reach. But he was a sworn enemy of the rich and especially of 
the Romans who wanted to subdue him. That is why he was highly esteemed 
among the Jews because they also hated the Romans. He even found a certain 
protection in the temple because they hoped via Barabbas to gain influence with 
the Arab people. 


[GGJ.n_6o,io] But when he became too audacious and attacked a Roman 
convoy that traveled to Petra with money and treasures for the proconsul there, a 
Roman general set up a trap for him, and after great resistance he was captured. 
In the battle that took place, Barabbas killed the son of the governor of Petra, and 
after being accused of rebellion and murder he was send to Jerusalem to be 
sentenced by Pontius Pilate. 


[GGJ.n_6o,n] This Barabbas was first brought to the general court in Jerusalem 
and then, after questioning the witnesses and many charges were laid out against 
him, he would be delivered to the Roman court. But as long as this did not 
happen, Pontius Pilate, as the supreme ruler over Judea, had absolute authority 
over him and had only to give an account of his acts to the emperor. 


Chapter 61 

ARRIVAL IN BETHANY. STAYING WITH LAZARUS. THE RETURN 
OF JUDAS. HIS CONVERSATION WITH THE LORD. 


NOW the Romans had passed by with their troop and the prisoners so that we 
could continue our trip. 


[GGJ.n_6i,02] Shortly we came close to Bethany where Lazarus was staying. 
Driven by his great inner desire for Me, every day he climbed up to his favorite 
spot to look for My arrival. And also this time he stood at his lookout post. As 
soon as he saw us all coming on the road, he felt in his heart that it was Me, and 
he immediately ran to meet us while shouting at his servants that they should 
inform those in the house that the Lord had returned. 


[GGJ.ii_6i,3] So Lazarus was soon with us on the road, and it is unnecessary to 
tell how joyful he and his family were when they saw us again after a long time of 
separation and how they welcomed us again in their house. 


[GGJ.n_6i,4] Now came important days that were meant to convince Lazarus as 
well as My disciples of what My final goal was with humanity, and this is why 
many things were still disclosed to them of which it is now not the right time to 
reveal this again to the world. But this will happen later. 


[GGJ.n_6i,5] In the evening we sat mostly together in the well known hall of the 
inn on the Mount of Olives, which was also Lazarus’ property, because many 
people were crowded together there and it was also necessary that they should see 
and hear Me. 


[GGJ.n_6i,6] As soon as it became known that I appeared again openly, there 
was a big crowd of Jews from Jerusalem, and even more Jews from other parts of 
the country who had come because of the Feast in Jerusalem. GGJ.n_He had no 
more doubts and My teaching and personality were clear to him now. The Jews 
were mostly not from this region but heard about the miracle and about Me and 
they came to see us - often out of curiosity but also for more pure reasons. All 
those of the Jewish people, who were to a certain extent receptive for what is 
good, came in that time near to Me so that the souls could be enlightened. And so 
My disciples and I were constantly busy to refresh those who were crowding 
together and whose soul was thirsty. 


[GGJ.n_6i,7] One should not think that this was only for the Jews. Also many 
strangers, Greeks, Romans and other people, who heard about Me and who did 
not exactly know what they had to think of Me, came in these days and were 
informed so that during the days till My condemnation there was a rich, last catch 
of fish for all the things that still could be done. 


[GGJ.n_6i,8] It is necessary to know this fact in order to understand the 
following: 


[GGJ.ii_6i, 9] On the evening of the first day that we arrived at Lazarus’ place, we 
withdrew ourselves from the people who were yet not so many on that day, and 
we were alone in the hall where we used to be together, when suddenly Judas 
Iscariot entered by the door and greeted us all. My followers were already very 
glad that they did not have to see him for such a long time and were hoping to see 
him no more at all, and therefore their faces changed somewhat when he greeted 
us. 


[GGJ.n_6i,io] He asked Me very kindly if I would allow him to join us, on which 
I answered him that he could do as he pleases. 


[GGJ.n_6i,n] Now Judas related much about Jericho and about what he did 
there, that he worked for Me there and was hoping that this would satisfy Me. He 
described by that in vivid colors how much misery he saw there and also on his 
way here how the poor people were oppressed and suffered in bondage. Yes, he 
was so much carried away in his speech that everyone was amazed and listened to 
him because no one had experienced so strongly the real power of his words. 


[GGJ.ii_6i, 12] He (Judas) ended with the words: “O Lord, if I only had one 
tenth of Your power in me, how much would I in a short time 231 make an end to 
all the violence of the great ones and make free, glad and happy the people that 
are bound in shackles and cry to Jehovah to save them, so that they would praise 
the name of their Lord and God and would shout from joy. O Lord, how long will 
You still wait and leave the sound of their prayers unheard? 


[GGJ.ii_6i, 13] Look, there He is, the King whom Israel is ready to receive, and 
He does not show Himself. He still hides, the Messiah who is greatly awaited, the 
Son of David, the Man with the power of God in Him. He lingers to unfold that 
great power to salvation of His people, and Israel must mourn and continue to 
lament because of their deep fall. 


[GGJ.ii_6i, 14] O Lord, have mercy on the people, on the poor and the needy. 
Guide them into happiness, because see, Zion expects their King.” 


[GGJ.ii_6i, 15] After these words, which clearly showed that also Judas expected 
in Me the worldly saving Messiah while I often emphasized that I was not, there 
was a great silence, waiting for what would follow. And I answered him: “Did I 
not always call the poor to Me? Were the needy not comforted by Me, the sick 
made healthy and the poor made rich, as far as they needed it? So who is 
lingering? Not I - the world is lingering and they do not want to come to 
salvation. But soon the Son of man will come to such high power that can be 
reached so that the world will see that He can attain for what the world is striving 
for and which they seem to desire. But this will not happen for the salvation of the 
world, but for the salvation of My Heavens. So rest reassured by what you have 
already seen and which you will soon see again.” 


[GGJ.n_6i,i6] Now Judas became silent and rejoiced in his heart, for he thought 
that now by his words he set in motion that I would still perhaps make a decisive 
step to free the people from the yoke of the Romans, for he very well knew that I 
had the power to do this. 


[GGJ.ii_6i, 17] He came to this thought - which did not correspond with what I 
had said up till now, which he knew - by the following circumstances: when he 
was staying in Jericho he tried as much as possible to make use of his talents and 
spoke also often to bigger groups of people about Me and My mission. By that he 
acquired a certain popularity, especially when he also really succeeded to 
accomplish a few healings in My name. 


[GGJ.n_6i,i8] Herod, who stayed for the winter in Jericho, heard also about 
him. Since he had been curious for already a long time to come in contact with the 
Man of wonders as he called Me, he let him be called to him in order to know 
more about Me. Judas, very audacious as he was, used this opportunity fully for 
himself by introducing himself as disciple of the Nazarene, and by his way of 
acting he also managed to bring the king to a certain respect because his words 
were well sustained by his good memory and he often represented many of whole 
expressions that I used. 


[GGJ.ii_6i, 19] Herod soon realized that there was more truth in all the many 
rumors that went around than he first thought, and in his soul came the idea that 
such special kind of Man of wonders could in any case be very useful to him with 
the Romans if he could in this way put them in fear and fright if that would be 
necessary. 


[GGJ.n_6i,2o] Herod and Pontius Pilate, the governor, were enemies because 
Herod felt suppressed by Pilate. The despotism of Herod was always restricted by 
Pontius Pilate as soon as it was aimed at the extension of power by which Herod, 
who always had the desire for an independent rulership over Judea and Syria, 
became in turn very embittered. A supernatural power that was not subjected to 
the power of the Romans would be very welcome to him. For this reason, he was 
also not hostile against John who seemed to be a prophet to him and he certainly 
would not have let him be killed if he would not have been tricked into it. 



 


 

[GGJ.u_6i,2i] Judas, who had a good insight into human character, had enough 
opportunity in Jericho to be informed about the tensions between Herod and the 
Romans. He also soon noticed in what Herod was interested in. He thought that it 
would help My case when he would strife to clear the way for Me to unfold My 
power. And he related a lot about the super power of My will to which everything 
on Earth had to comply. He was especially brilliant in his stories about the 
destruction of those cruel soldiers whom I let be killed by the wild animals, this as 
proof for the fact that I am capable to confront invincible creatures against the 
Roman weapons. 


[GGJ.ii_6i, 22] Judas, who just like the Jewish people wanted the Messiah to be 
the savior in an outer manner and thought that I was the most suitable for that 
mission, was by those meetings even more strengthened in his wrong opinion and 
felt the urge in himself to as much as possible contribute to that part of My work. 
He received the order from Herod to convince Me to meet him since he did not 
dare to speak out a direct order because he was afraid of My power. 


[GGJ.n_6i,23] They agreed that the move to Jerusalem for the Feast was the 
best time, and so Judas came to us as an ambassador of Herod to convince Me of 
the worldly plans of the king and by that to make Me well-disposed for those of 
the temple. 


[GGJ.n_6i,24] It is obvious that I was very well aware of those plans and so I did 
not first have to engage in a conversation with Judas himself. But he thought that 
I probably could not read those secret thoughts, because with all his spiritual 
aptitude he was nevertheless a materialistic person who did absolutely not so 
deeply penetrate into the being and understanding of My personality so that he 
only could see in Me a very talented person equipped with exceptional powers. He 
knew - for he had plenty of proof - that no one could resist Me physically, but he 
doubted whether I could perceive the inner, most secret traits of the human 
heart. I was always kind to him and full of love, but nevertheless more reserved 
with him than with anyone else so that he could not understand the language of 
My Spirit that can only be disclosed by the love of a created being for Me which he 
did not offer Me. 


[GGJ.n_6i,25] So he later made great effort to explain to Me with his brilliant 
orators talent of the necessity of an outer salvation of the people by which he 
hinted at the support of Herod. But I seriously rebuked him for such words so 
that he became more and more reserved and introvert. 
 

[GGJ.ii_6i, 26] It is necessary to make this remark here to understand what went 
on in his mind. 

 


Chapter 62 


JESUS ANOINTED BY MARIA. THE FIRST BETRAYAL OF JUDAS. 


WHEN we were all silently sitting there after Judas’ speech and each one of 
them was in deep thought, the door opened, and Maria, the sister of Lazarus, 
came in. With her eyes fixed on Me she came to Me without being concerned 
about those who were present. She fell down at My feet and covered them with 
kisses. Then she took a bottle of expensive nard oil 1 , opened it and anointed My 
feet with the oil while drying them again with her long hair. While she was loudly 
crying she asked Me with an emotional voice to allow this anointing. 


[ J Made from an aromatic herb of the Himalaya Mountains, having rose-purple 
flowers.] 


[GGJ.ii_ 62,2] It is little known that only very prominent people could afford 
such luxury, for just as the frequent washing of the feet was in that time an 
absolute necessity - since the wearing of shoes was scorned by most people who 
were not so wealthy - also the frequent anointing of the feet was necessary in 
order to keep the skin supple. 


[GGJ.n_62,3] Nard oil had special stimulating qualities, smelled lovely and was 
very refreshing, but because of its favorite and rare qualities it was very expensive 
so that such foot washing was a very exceptional luxury which only very rich 
people could afford. 


[GGJ.n_62,4] The house became completely filled with the smell of the oil which 
was a sign of its exceptional quality, so that Judas, who was always very much 
concerned about the money, could not refrain from saying: “Would it not have 
been better to sell this ointment and with its benefit give many poor people to 
eat? Why does the Lord need such oil, for He possesses the power to refresh 
Himself at each moment even without such oil?” 


[GGJ.n_62,5] But he only said this out of stinginess because Lazarus’ riches 
always irritated him and he often took the opportunity to point out that the rich 
were guzzling while the righteous Israelites had to suffer need. 
 

[GGJ.ii_ 62,6] But I answered to that, pointing to Maria who was still kneeling 
there: “What she has done, she did it out of love, and every offering that comes 
from a loving heart is pleasant to me. With this deed she not only strengthened 
My body but also My soul, for when so much love is given, I will return that love 
by giving still more love to humanity. By that she acquired the right to give Me at 
the day of My burial the necessary strength which My soul still needs to conquer 
the heaviest. And therefore, her deed of love will never be forgotten, and 
wherever you will preach My gospel you should also not forget her. So leave her in 
peace.” 


[GGJ.n_62,7] I lifted the still heavily crying Maria, blessed her and said: “Maria, 
your sins are forgiven by My Father. And what you have done for Me, the Son, I 
will testify before My Father, and in His house it will be rewarded to you a 
thousandfold upon a thousandfold. 


[GGJ.n_62,8] Now come and sit with us, strengthen your body and stay with us, 
for the one who gave Me strength by her love will not leave My side.” 


[GGJ.n_62,9] This deed, which is similar to the one of Maria Magdalena, gave 
reason to confusion. But it was Maria, the sister of Lazarus, who was devoted in 
pure love for Me, her Lord and Master - not with some earthly love. This is why 
her deed has a total different meaning than the one of Maria Magdalena. 


[GGJ.n_62,io] Now I turned to My disciples and continued: “He who is truly 
rich in his heart can also give of his riches without becoming poor himself. Yes, 
the more he gives, the richer he will become, but the one who is poor in himself, 
from him will be taken away the little that he has, because this is what he has to 
lose by himself. You always have physical and spiritual poor people around you 
now and you give them always of your abundance. But you do not always have Me 
with you, and therefore you soon will not be able to give Me anything anymore, 
also not for what concerns My body.” 


[GGJ.ii_62,ii] This I said to prepare My disciples for My departure because their 
soul did not realize that this would happen soon. 


[GGJ.n_62,i2] Now Peter asked Me if I planned to go to the city tomorrow to 
preach in the temple. When I confirmed this he strongly advised against it 
because he already saw several temple Jews in the inn who observed Me with 
hateful looks and were certainly planning bad things against Me. 
 

[GGJ.ii_ 62,13] On this, I said to him: “I have to go there for the sake of the 
people and no one will prevent Me, for I only came here for their sake so that they 
maybe saved.” 


[GGJ.n_62,i4] When Judas heard that, he silently stood up and disappeared 
without anyone noticing it except Me. 


[GGJ.n_62,i5] He went outside to the people that crowded together in and 
around the inn and he told everyone that I was there and that I would go to the 
city tomorrow. They had to make it known: the Savior of Nazareth would come to 
the Feast. 


[GGJ.n_62,i6] Among the strangers in the city there were many who went to the 
Feast especially for Me because they thought that they would certainly see Me 
then. Since it was known that I always stayed with Lazarus, they sent messengers 
to find out whether I was there and what I decided to do. Now they heard by the 
first betrayal of Judas what I planned to do and they very quickly spread the news 
in the city. 


[GGJ.n_62,i7] He himself went also to Jerusalem to the different inns where he 
tried to convince the strangers and inhabitants to come to meet Me when I would 
come tomorrow at the Feast. 


[GGJ.n_62,i8] Since there were a great number of My followers, the news 
became soon known everywhere, especially because there was nothing more 
important to the people in Jerusalem than My appearance in the city. 


[GGJ.ii_ 62,19] While this was being prepared in the city we sat peacefully in 
Lazarus’ house and talked about less important things. Then Peter finally noticed 
that Judas was no longer present. He first informed the other brothers and then 
asked Me directly to where Judas had gone. 


[GGJ.n_62,2o] On this I answered that he should not be worried about him. 
What he did, he did out of a free urge, and this had nothing to do 237 with what 
concerned the disciples. 


[GGJ.n_62,2i] He did not ask any further but only expressed his discontentment 
about the fact that this man always returned anyway while they were all often 
hoping to never see him again. 

 


[GGJ.ii_62,22] Lazarus thought: “If the Lord wanted to do away with him, then 
this would certainly not be difficult for Him. But since He always allows him to 
stay in His presence, he also is certainly chosen for great things, and therefore we 
should not express a judgment about this but refrain from it.” 


Chapter 63 

JUDAS MAKES ARRANGEMENTS 

Peter then asked Me whether I intended to go down to the city and preach in the 
temple. When I answered this in the affirmative he urgently warned Me against it, 
since he had already seen some temple Jews at the inn who regarded Me 
maliciously and were obviously plotting against Me. 

[GGJ.n_63,02] I then told him: "I must go down for the sake of the people and 
nobody will prevent it; for I have only come for their sake, so that they may be 
redeemed." 

[GGJ.n_63,03] When Judas heard this he got up silently and left, unnoticed; and 
only I was aware of it. 

[GGJ.n_63,04] And he went outside to the people who had gathered in and 
around the inn, telling all of them that I was there and would go to the city 
tomorrow. They should make it known that the Saviour of Nazareth would be 
coming to the festival. 

[GGJ.ii_ 63,05] There were among the strangers in the city many who had come 
to the fe4tival mainly for My sake, firmly believing that they would find Me there. 
Since it was well known that I always put up at Lazarus', these people had sent 
messengers to find out whether I was there and what I intended to do. They 
learnt now through the first betrayal by Judas what I intended to do and soon 
spread the news in the city. 

[GGJ.n_63,o6] He also went to Jerusalem visiting the various inns and trying to 
persuade the strangers and locals to meet Me when tomorrow I would visit the 
festival. 

[GGJ.n_63,07] As the number of My adherents was very large, the news spread 
in a very short time, particularly since there was nothing more important to the 
people in Jerusalem than My appearance in the city. 

[GGJ.n_63,o8] While all this was in preparation in the city we were sitting 
quietly in Lazarus' house talking of unimportant things when finally Peter noticed 
that Judas was no longer present. First drawing the other brothers' attention to it 
he then asked Me directly where Judas had vanished to. 

[GGJ.n_63,09] I replied that he should not bother about him. Whatever he was 
doing, he was doing of his own free will, and it had nothing to do with the 
disciples' business. 
 


 

[GGJ.ii_63,io] He then did not ask any further questions but only gave voice to 
his anger that this man kept returning when they had so often hoped not to see 
him ever again. 

[GGJ.ii_6,3,n] Said Lazarus: "If the Lord wanted him removed, it would surely 
be easy for Him. However, since He always allows him to stay near Him, he too 
must be chosen for great things and, therefore, we must not pass any judgment, 
but should refrain from it." 


Chapter 64 


THE EXPERIENCES OF LAZARUS IN THE BEYOND 


IN order not to discuss this subject any further, Lazarus began to talk about his 
previous sickness and how he could still very well remember all the details before 
his death but knew nothing anymore of what happened with him after that. 


[GGJ.n_64,2] This was the opportunity to talk about life after death and how the 
soul feels when it arrives in the beyond. 


[GGJ.n_64,3] Lazarus asked Me why he did not remember anything at all about 
what happened to him at the time when he laid in the grave. 


[GGJ.n_64,4] I explained to him that the reason was that his soul was in a 
condition of highest bliss, and with that in mind it would be unbearable to him to 
still dedicate himself with earthly activities. This could be compared to a good and 
wise king who used to be with exalted people and would suddenly be forced to 
deal with the worst people and in the most miserable accommodation without 
being able to improve his condition. 


[GGJ.n_64,5] “But to prove to you that I did not say too much, for a short time I 
want you to receive that memory back and you can explain to all of us very clearly 
what has happened to you and what you have experienced. Now speak as it comes 
back into your memory and say clearly what you feel. But I want that you will not 
feel the present imprisonment in your body and that you speak as a free spirit.” 


[GGJ.n_64,6] Immediately Lazarus fell into a short trance. Then he woke up 
and spoke with a dignified, exalted expression the following: ‘O, now I can again 
see, clearly and distinctly in the spirit what I felt and thought during that hour of 
death. 


[GGJ.n_64,7] I had an unspeakable fear in the beginning when I noticed that life 
wanted to extinguish in me. Then there was a calmness and I felt the need to 
sleep deeply. The crying of my sisters who stood at my bed seemed pointless to 
me, for I knew that I would awaken again. Then I fell asleep. 


[GGJ.n_64,8] When I woke up I felt light and free of all physical discomforts. I 
breathed the purest air and I felt delightfully strengthened. I kept my eyes closed 
because I felt that it was cozy and pleasant to surrender completely to that rest. 
But then I felt the need to open my eyes, which did however not succeed so well. I 
felt how a hand touched my eyes, and now I could open them up. 


[GGJ.ii_ 64,9] I looked at the smiling face of my father and was at first very 
surprised about that because I knew that he died and saw him now standing next 
to me. He told me that I had died physically and had now entered the free 
spiritual world and was standing in his house. 


[GGJ.ii_64,io] I looked around me and saw a beautiful room, shining in bright, 
pure colors. The beauty of that room in which clear light was flowing impressed 
me so much that I was really amazed and shouted: ‘If I did not want to believe 
your words, this room shows me that I was taken away from the world, my father. 
Tell me, is this the place where you are staying?’ 


[GGJ.ii_64,ii] My father answered: ‘This room is so to speak my secret little 
room in which I am completely alone with My Lord and Creator, and through 
Him I am also everywhere wherever it is needed. I have taken you up my son in 
this holy place because you only are a guest of this kingdom and later you will 
enter your own possession. But it is a great joy for me to receive you, for he who is 
a friend of the Lord now visiting the Earth, can also claim the best in us and so 
also outside of us. 


[GGJ.n_64,i2] You do not understand how this is meant? See, this room means 
the inner little room of the heart of my being and is therefore the center of my 
sphere from which I can bring you everywhere as far as my spirit reaches. By that 
you are at the same time with me, surrounded by my love, co-ruler of myself as 
long as you are here. Every human being has in the beyond such very holy place 
in which he can withdraw himself in order to be pervaded by the rays of the 
purest light which penetrates unobstructed through all the walls. You also will 
experience this when you will be a permanent inhabitant here. But now, as 
already said, you are not yet, but only a guest because I as your earthly father 
have the nearest right to protect your soul.’ 


[GGJ.n_64,i3] Now I stood up from my resting chair on which I came to myself 
again, and in full love I hugged my father whom I did not leave till You, o Lord, 
called me back. I also traveled around with him and he showed me all the things 
that were under his control. His most important task was to gather the souls who 
arrived from the Earth and lead them to the right spiritual activities. 


[GGJ.n_64,i4] I also saw how these souls were often heavily loaded with all 
kinds of worldly filth from which they had to free themselves, and I saw how 
everything that is present in the spirit shows itself also on the outside in a 
corresponding image in an outer appearance. Thus, lasting images exist from the 
things that the souls want and wish which can only change when the will changes, 
and in this way they represent the sphere or the visible world of the thoughts of 
the soul. The bodily masking cover has disappeared and with that also the 
possibility to hide the will of the thoughts. 


[GGJ.n_64,i5] But that world of thoughts is absolutely not something that is not 
there - meaning a fantasy - but it is for every spirit something that is materially 
spiritualized, structured, as soon as it is fixed by the will of love, which must be in 
harmony with the will of God’s love. If the will of the created being is not in 
harmony with the will of God’s love, the world of thoughts cannot remain in 
existence but will again have to perish. The earthly material things that are build 
and the material transmitted thoughts of man are perishable because in the will 
of God’s love matter does not exist at all, but were only fixed as a changeable form 
for a certain goal. But the things of the spirit are imperishable because the 
creation of the spirit is the end goal of the divine creation itself. This means: God 
wants to create by His created beings and thus give them happiness, let them 
enjoy it and He Himself will enjoy it through His created beings. 


[GGJ.n_64,i6] So life in the beyond is therefore mainly to be active in the spirit. 
That means creating imperishable works, but not material works which have to 
fall apart into debris and dust. 


[GGJ.n_64,i7] By looking at the many things that were shown to my spirit I 
already enjoyed part of the future happiness, and I therefore will always be gladly 
willing to dispose again of this body when You, o Lord, will command it, just as 
much as I was disposed to come back again when Your voice sounded in the room 
and urged me to come back. My father told me already that this would happen 
and so I was completely prepared for it. 


[GGJ.ii_64,i 8] But I also know now that every human being must, for what his 
body is concerned, be awakened by You in this manner because after the 
departure of the soul, many things are still left behind of what the soul needs for 
his life in the beyond. This is based on the fact that those substances, which form 
matter in the body, will after their dissolving and ascending from their physical 
form still keep a kind of relationship with the soul. Something like when a person 
who lived for a long time in a region will after his departure still be attracted to it, 
and the things that he experienced there will always still be connected with the 
environment in the feeling of his soul so that one thing without the interaction of 
the other would only give an unclear picture. 


[GGJ.n_64,i9] So the soul seeks to attract to itself the soul-element that controls 
the smallest parts of substance of its body that are left behind and unite them 
with itself because by that, also a kind of liberation from matter takes place, or 
better said: what is pure will take up in itself, devour, that which is still impure. 
Of course this is a process which remains completely incomprehensive for a still 
earthly human being if he is not far advanced in spiritual things. Anyway, this 
awakening of the body by the soul, which does not have to happen fast, is as 
necessary as the awakening of the soul by the spirit which is in turn directly 
awakened by You, o Lord, this means: be called to life. This progressive order is a 
special secret of Your creation which I could only see and experience in the 
beyond and which every human being will experience in himself. 


[GGJ.n_64,2o] Now when Your voice sounded to me, I felt withdrawn and I had 
the feeling like when the images are changing in a dream and then you soon wake 
up. However, between the images that we dream we feel a gap which the soul 
cannot fill up when it is conscious. Thus I thought that I woke up from a long 
sleep and then I found myself lying in the grave. I knew what had happened to me 
but I only had the memory of a dream. 


[GGJ.n_64,2i] Now that I feel free from my body at this moment, I also feel very 
well that the shackles of the body are not capable to restrain the soul which feels 
free once it has tasted the true freedom of the soul, for which reason You, o Lord, 
have loosened the bonds of my body so that it would not be destroyed. I also 
know now that You explained everything to me after my awakening, which 
however disappeared again from my memory. But now I will no longer forget 
these events but will certainly keep them in myself as an invaluable possession.” 

 

[GGJ.ii_64,22] Now I said to Lazarus that he should again be the one whom he 
was before and be the earthly living Lazarus. Then he once more fell into a short 
trance, and after that he cheerfully woke up in the midst of My followers with the 
memory of a living dream. 


[GGJ.ii_ 64,23] This event had been a lively, clear image of the process of dying 
for all those who were present, and later it greatly contributed to remove any 
remaining fear of the moment of death. 


[GGJ.n_64,24] Now I encouraged My followers to go to rest so that they would 
feel strengthened tomorrow for a great work, and they soon all followed this 
advice. 
 


Chapter 65 

THE LORD GOES ALONE TO THE TOP OF THE MOUNT OF OLIVES. 
CONVERSATION BETWEEN THE DEITY AND THE SON OF MAN 
JESUS. 


BUT I left the house and went alone on the Mount of Olives from where one 
could enjoy a wide view over Jerusalem and the whole environment. 


[GGJ.n_65,2] There the deity separated in Me and spoke to Him: “Look, You can 
see here before You the city of Your suffering which will start in the coming days 
if You will freely take the yoke upon You which will serve for the salvation of the 
whole of humanity. 


[GGJ.n_65,3] In Your earthly body, separated from Me, You are a human being 
just like anyone else. You strove to awaken the Spirit in You which is the fullness 
of the deity Himself. By sacrificing Your own free will You let grow the will of the 
Almightiness. But now it depends on Your will as a human being himself whether 
You want to take the last and heaviest work upon You. Therefore I ask You: Do 
You want, as My Son, to ascend in the Father by executing everything that He 
commands You to do? Or do You only want to belong to this humanity and 
remain only of this world? 


[GGJ.n_65,4] You can be a ruler over the world and remain a Savior of the 
world, but You also can be a road sign to Me that points to the center of God’s 
heart by completely ascending in Me and become by that a Ruler over life in all 
eternities. You can be an Intercessor of humanity, of the beings who went out, 
created by My power and who will come back to the heart of the Father. But You 
also can be an Intercessor of love who commands wisdom to change its justice 
into mercy. So choose now while You have before Your eyes what will happen to 
Your body, whether You want to walk the way next to Me or the way in Me, 
because now has come the last decision.” 


[GGJ.n_65,5] Then the soul of Jesus, the Son of man, spoke: “Father, Your will 
is always Mine, and only what You want will be done. Because what the Earth can 
give Me has only become its possession by You. However, I want to go the direct 
way and only receive from Your hand what will happen to Me, and so I always 
want to obey only Your will.” 


[GGJ.ii_ 65,6] Then the deity said in the heart of the Son of man: “Still one 
more time I will ask You just like today, and then will happen what You want if 
You still will give the same answer. But see now what the world will offer You.” 


[GGJ.ii_ 65,7] The Son of man stayed now on the mountain in quiet prayer and 
then went down before sunrise, to the house of Lazarus, without anyone noticing 
it. 



Chapter 66 

ENTRY INTO JERUSALEM 


THE next morning, even before sunrise, they were all awake and we immediately 
went outside. 


[GGJ.n_66,2] There I called My disciples, the 12 apostles, around Me and said to 
them the following: “My loved ones, this day will become for the Son of man a day 
of great honor because the Father wants it this way for the sake of the people. 
Nevertheless, this will not touch you more than the spirit in you will allow, so that 
you will not become proud. So close your hearts for all the whisperings of vanity 
and lust for power so that the enemy will not have any power over you and would 
make you his instruments.” 


[GGJ.n_66,3] Then the disciples asked, when Judas was present again among 
them since he secretly came back in the morning: “Lord, what do You mean 
exactly, and how can we protect us against the enemy?” 


[GGJ.n_66,4] I said: “Beware and open your souls for the light of wisdom, then 
you will understand about which the prophets have spoken. Love God only and 
not the world, then you will be able to protect yourselves against all attacks.” 


[GGJ.n_66,5] On this, I turned in the direction of Jerusalem and called out loud: 
“But you, daughter of Zion, be prepared to receive your King.” 


[GGJ.n_66,6] After these words, the sun was shining brightly with a glow as was 
never seen before, and at that same moment My disciples - except Judas who 
excitedly stood aside - saw with spiritual eyes how a big city was forming in the 
air, an image of the earthly Jerusalem but much more beautiful. The gates were 
widely opened and an immense crowd of glorious human figures stood there in 
full expectation as if they were waiting for a Ruler who would come in. 


[GGJ.n_66,7] This spiritual vision lasted for only a short time. Then the image 
disappeared, and I said to them: “The Son is expected there and He will from now 
on rule in eternity. It is just also for the Son of man to be raised. Come and follow 
Me.” 


 

[GGJ.ii_66,8] Peter asked Me if I wanted to leave without saying goodbye and 
without informing Lazarus and his sisters. 


[GGJ.n_66,9] I said: “Do you know why this is necessary? I know what is 
necessary for Me to do. So do not worry about anything. Lazarus and his sisters 
will know how to find Me at the right time, just like still many others for whom 
this day is necessary.” 


[GGJ.n_66,io] Now the disciples did not say anything anymore but they were 
very surprised and were whispering among each other, wondering what My 
strange way of acting might mean, for they did not see Me acting like this for a 
long time. But John rebuked them to refrain from saying any word and to silently 
do what I would want so that not the least would be done against My will. They all 
promised, and especially Peter assured solemnly that he would follow Me in Hell 
even if he would not know why I would go that way. 


[GGJ.n_66,n] Judas, who heard these words, said smilingly: “Friend, the Lord 
knows which way He has to go. Not to Hell, but for the glory and honor of His 
people He walks the way as the One who is sent by God.” 


[GGJ.n_66,i2] Full of enthusiasm he looked at Me, because My loud words 
seemed to be the confirmation of all his wishes so that he saw the way opened to 
all honor which he would receive as the one who prepared the way of the Messiah 
who would have much to thank him for. 


[GGJ.n_66,i3] Peter looked surprised at Judas who displayed such a proud and 
self-confident attitude, but he kept silent because all the things that happened 
this morning seemed very strange to him, and 245 together with the other eleven 
he silently continued his way. 


[GGJ.n_66,i4] We were now halfway on the road from Bethany to the gates of 
Jerusalem. Before us on the left there was a little village that was named 
Betphage but which has now completely disappeared. Here I asked My disciples if 
two of them would like to do Me a favor of love. They all volunteered for it. But I 
chose John and Peter and instructed them to go to the little village which they 
saw before them. There at the first house they would find a grazing she-ass that 
was tied-up with her colt. 



[GGJ.ii_ 66,15] “Bring Me the colt, for I need it. When they will ask you who has 
sent you, then answer only this: ‘It is the Lord, and He needs the animal’. Then it 
will be given to you.” 


[GGJ.n_66,i6] The two obeyed immediately and went to the village while we sat 
down along the road under the shrubs and flowering trees to wait for the return 
of those who were sent. 


[GGJ.ii_66,17] Now in Betphage lived a man, named Migram, who had been a 
Roman lance bearer. He took part in many campaigns of war and acquired a 
respected position in the army because of his bravery and cleverness, for which 
reason he was held in esteem by his superiors. When a heavy injury, by which he 
dragged his right leg, forced him to leave, he was richly rewarded and dismissed 
with complete exemption of taxes. He formerly knew the old Marcus, visited his 
friend and looked for healing in his baths, and when he left, he bought the earlier 
mentioned she-ass and took it to his little house where it served his master as a 
loyal animal that carried the produce of his little garden to Jerusalem to sell them 
there. 


[GGJ.n_66,i8] This Migram had heard much about Me from Marcus, was 
initiated in My teaching, and as a Roman who did not bother about the Jews of 
Jerusalem, since he only dealt with the representatives and citizens of Rome, was 
openly a follower of Me. So when the two disciples came to his house and saw 
there also the two animals, loosening at once the rope of the youngest one, the 
owner came quickly out of his house, together with a few others who visited him 
to buy his fruits, and he asked them rudely what they had in mind by taking the 
animal. 


[GGJ.n_66,i9] John answered immediately according to My words, and when 
Migram joyfully heard that he could do Me a favor, he at once also wanted to 
loosen the old she-ass in order to personally bring her and the colt to Me. The 
disciples said that the Lord only wanted the colt. But in his zeal he did not listen 
to that and drove the animals quickly ahead to reach the place where I was so that 
the disciples could hardly follow him. 


[GGJ.n_66,2o] When Migram brought Me the animals which he offered Me with 
joy, I said to him: “Migram, I can see your good will and I will reward what you 
immediately did for Me when I sent My followers to you. But now, the animal that 
My disciples required from you, prepare it for Me for riding.” 

 


 

[GGJ.ii_66,2i] He immediately did this by folding his cloak, which he wore 
according to Roman custom, and spread it over the back of the animal. Also a few 
of My followers did the same in order to make it a comfortable seat. 


[GGJ.ii_ 66,22] While we were still busy with these preparations, a big group of 
people came along the road from Jerusalem. When they saw us, they rushed to 
us, and in the shortest time we were surrounded by several hundred people who 
fervently welcomed Me, greeting Me as the Savior of Israel. These were mostly 
Jews who came for the Feast, and some of them knew Me from My travels 
through the country, and thus they met Me and My disciples before, knowing us 
as benefactors. These people praised Me as their King, especially since many of 
them were miraculously fed by Me and had already the intention at that time to 
declare Me King for which reason I withdrew from them. 


[GGJ.n_66,23] While these were enthusiastically crying out at Me, Lazarus with 
his sisters and his closest personnel, who had gone out to look for Me, rushed 
towards Me through the bystanders and were glad to have found Me. When those 
who were present saw Lazarus, whom they knew very well and whose name was 
on everyone’s lips since his awakening, there was no end to their jubilation. And 
we were all surrounded while they were shouting: ‘hosanna’ and ‘hail’. I did not 
turn down this honoring but I silently mounted the prepared animal which 
moved now on the road into the direction of Jerusalem. 


[GGJ.n_66,24] But the crowd continued to grow because everyone was attracted 
by the noise and followed the procession. The people pulled off flourishing 
branches from the trees and strewed them on the road. Then they spread out 
their clothes to let the pack animal walk over them. These were all marks of honor 
with which former kings were greeted. When we came near the slope of the 
Mount of Olives from where one had a wide view over Jerusalem, we saw 
thousands of people standing at the gates, and the Kidron Valley was full of 
people. 


[GGJ.n_66,25] Jerusalem was a big city but at the time of Passover it could not 
accommodate the big number of strangers. It was therefore common that the 
poorer people, and also those who came too late to still find an accommodation in 
the overcrowded inns, stayed in the Kidron Valley in the open air or in tents, for 
apart from the temple, also the Kidron Valley was considered holy ground. All 
those people, who also found now a place in the valley and heard the rumor that I 
would come to Jerusalem, rushed to us to welcome Me by which they loudly 
praised My deeds and especially the awakening of Lazarus who was now visibly 
walking beside Me, and so they supported the general praising. 

 

[GGJ.ii_ 66,26] When we came at the gate of Jerusalem, which formed the main 
entrance from the Mount of Olives, the Roman guards of the gate tried to close it 
because the guards were afraid that an uprising was being prepared. But they 
were prevented by the enormous throng of people who wanted to leave the city 
because from the courtyard of the temple they partly saw the coming procession 
and they also heard the shouting. When moreover the Romans saw that the 
people were peacefully coming near with tree branches and palm leaves in their 
hands, they abandoned every resistance and rather looked with amazement at the 
procession as something unknown to them and which was probably part of the 
Feast. So we all could come into the city unhindered and went immediately in the 
direction of the temple. 


Chapter 67 

JESUS IN THE TEMPLE 


MEANWHILE the Pharisees, priests and servants of the temple were really 
upset and wondered what they could do about this big demonstration. They soon 
realized that it would be impossible to suppress them with arms since this would 
soon be followed by an uprising against the already unpopular rule of the temple. 
The people were exalted with enthusiasm which could not be subdued by force. 
So all they could do was to let it happen for the time being and to exploit it as 
much as possible for the prestige of the temple in case of an unexpected turnover. 


[GGJ.ii_ 67,2] Especially Caiaphas, the high priest, advised in a hurriedly 
assembled Council, to wait and see what I actually planned to do and in what 
direction I wanted to turn the whole movement. If I wanted to be proclaimed 
king, then the power of the Romans would soon be on their side, but if I wanted 
to go against the temple and its servants, then also I would accomplish little 
without embittering the people because the people would not allow them to 
remove their belief in Jehovah. For the moment it was mainly a question of 
waiting and to smartly make use of all possibly mistakes on My part. 


[GGJ.n_67,3] However, the priests themselves decided not to be seen but to 
widely open the temple so that its sanctity would speak to the people. Thus they 
quickly opened all the gates, and also the holy place was not closed - the room 
which no Israelite was permitted to enter without preparation and where no 
priest would enter without special ceremonies, prayer and preceding washing. 


 

[GGJ.ii_ 67,4] The servants of the temple were quickly instructed to inform the 
again numerously present salesmen in the courtyards of the temple to avoid an 
irritating scene such as the one I already gave them before. But this precaution 
came too late because the money changers and the different kinds of salesmen 
became vigilant by the shouting outside the walls, and as soon as they heard what 
was going on they gathered their items, left the building with their merchandise 
and ran away because they still had well in mind what I had done before. 


[GGJ.n_67,5] This second temple purification which was not directly the result 
of My appearance, gave rise to the misunderstanding that the earlier described 
temple purification had taken place at My entry while it happened much earlier, 
namely at the beginning of My teaching ministry. 


[GGJ.n_67,6] Now when the people penetrated into the temple with much 
shouting, they mainly were looking for the priests, for they wanted that the high 
priest Caiaphas would anoint Me king with the sacred anointing oil after which 
they wanted to bring Me to the castle of Zion to honor Me, but the priests could 
not be found. The people penetrated unhindered through the courtyards into the 
holy place. 


[GGJ.n_67,7] My followers were worried and came standing around Me because 
they saw and heard what the people intended to do with Me. Peter was worried 
and asked Me: “Lord, what will come of this? Do You want to be proclaimed king 
of Israel here?” 


[GGJ.n_67,8] I told him to be silent and instructed the bystanders to make place 
for Me so that I could enter the temple unhindered after I had left the pack 
animal behind earlier. 


[GGJ.n_67,9] The people obeyed, and followed by many people I went through 
the courtyards into the inner sanctuary, entered the holy place itself and went to 
the big sacrificial altar and ascended its steps. 


[GGJ.ii_67,io] Here, according to the rules of the temple, the common people 
could not follow but they had to stand outside in the halls from where they could 
watch the actions of the priests in the holy place. 


[GGJ.ii_67,ii] The Pharisees and the superiors of the temple had rightly judged 
the lightly excitable mood of the people, for while they previously would not have 
hesitated to enforce their will on the priests in case they would not be willing, 
they were now impressed by the place itself, although by the absence of all the 
priests there was no personal enmity possible, and a striking silence followed the 
general excitement in expectation of what I would do. I also ordered My followers 
to stay behind, and so I was standing there alone, seen by the whole crowd. 


[GGJ.n_67,i2] Now I spoke with a loud voice to the people: “The hour has come 
now for everyone to learn to where the roads are leading which you have been 
taken up to now, and everyone has to decide whether he wants to go to the Father 
or not. You brought Me into this house where in former times the Spirit of God 
lived visibly, but now He retreated from these walls and the place became empty. 
However, now He chose another place, and every human being can build a temple 
for himself if he acts according to My words and My teachings that I gave you. 


[GGJ.n_67,i3] Let everyone be carried by humility and then enter directly into 
the erected House of God which became empty but which should be filled again 
with deeds of love. Every deed of love is a building stone for the temple, and that 
temple will be crowned with the sign of wisdom and power if love only will be its 
foundation. I came to you so that you can learn love from Me, which you have 
despised. Not the self-love which you have, but the love for fellowman which you 
do not have but which makes you divine and the only thing that can bring you to 
God. 


[GGJ.n_67,i4] But if you believe that I am your king and that this is what I want 
to be, then know that My Kingdom is not of this world but that it lives in all its 
glory in man and that it forms the inheritance which the Father has given to the 
Son and through Him to all people on Earth and all Heavens. So do not think that 
I will enter the castle of David to establish an earthly kingdom. He who wants to 
follow Me, let him follow Me in My deeds, then he will be blessed. The Son is 
from the Father, and since He is from the Father, He is in Him and the Father is 
in the Son, and he who follows the Son will therefore also follow the Father. 


[GGJ.n_67,i5] Bring all those to Me whose body and heart are broken, then I 
will heal them so that they will become healthy. But those whose mind is broken 
will take offence at Me and I will not be able to heal them, for he who takes 
offence at Me is full of anger and pride and lacks love because it seems foolish and 
hard to him. But I want to heal your hearts and so also your souls and bodies, for 
251 only in the heart lives faith, and when this is not present there is darkness 
because faith that grew out of insight is a light that drives away all darkness. So 
believe in Me and in the Father so that you may see and darkness may leave you. 


 

[GGJ.ii_67,i 6] Truly, I say to you: without true faith no one can be blessed. And I 
told you what and wherein you should believe. So act according to My words as I 
have acted according to these words of Mine. Then all will be able to do what I 
have done, and no one on Earth will be able to say anymore that the ways to reach 
bliss are inaccessible to him. 


[GGJ.n_67,i7] But to show you what the power of the Father can achieve in man, 
bring Me the sick who suffer in their bodies, so that I may heal them.” 


[GGJ.n_67,i8] After these words I stepped down from the altar and I went in the 
courtyards where many sick people were lying and wanted to give offerings, 
hoping to become healthy by the prayers of the priests which was a general 
custom, especially at Passover. However, only for those who could give an 
offering in gold coins, otherwise the priests would not give such sick person any 
priority. So many a people grabbed his last possessions together to make that last 
attempt to gain his health, but then he would leave the temple without having 
regained his health. 


[GGJ.n_67,i9] I went to these sick people, and I asked them very seriously: “Do 
you believe that the God of your fathers can heal you if you will ask Him for it? Or 
do you think that you can become healthy by the help of humans?” 


[GGJ.ii_67,2o] Then many desperate sick people cried out: “Master, only God 
can help us, and here in the temple we surely are closest to Him.” 


[GGJ.n_67,2i] But others kept silent, and so I asked also them for their opinion. 


[GGJ.n_67,22] Then one of them answered Me: “Master, they told us: when 
the high priest does not pray to God in the most holy place for us we cannot be 
helped, for only he is the intercessor with God. So we have to wait till that will 
happen.” 252 


[GGJ.n_67,23] On this I said: “Then do you believe that God cannot come to any 
person if he asks Him for it? Why do you first need an intercessor? Believe, then 
you also will be helped.” 


[GGJ.n_67,24] Then again the first speaker said: “Master, we believe what is 
said to us, and still we are not helped. What else should we still believe?” 

 


[GGJ.ii_ 67,25] I answered: “You should believe that God, the Father of eternity, 
is endlessly good and comes to everyone who calls on Him in all earnestness. You 
should believe that God does not first need men to send them His power but that 
this power can be attracted by everyone by his love for God, which will then 
unfold in man and can be put to work. Can you believe that?” 


[GGJ.n_67,26] While the sick man was firmly looking at Me, he said: “Master, 
I believe it, because You said it to me, for no one spoke to us like You did.” 


[GGJ.n_67,27] I said: “My words are the truth, and since they are the truth, they 
are also the life and the power of life. As a human being I always acted according 
to them and so I have become a Master of life. Therefore, I say to you all: Go and 
do likewise, and do not sin anymore, neither in words nor in actions. Do not sin 
by doing something that goes against the love for God and fellowman, then you 
will stay healthy and become true masters of life. Stand up and walk!” 


[GGJ.n_67,28] After these words, all the illnesses left the bodies of those who 
were sick, and they stood up, healthy and strong of body. The people who were 
standing around burst out again with loud shouting of joy and praised Me beyond 
measure. Many fell down before Me and tried to grab My hands and clothes to 
kiss them. I did not stop them but let them all come to Me. 


[GGJ.n_67,29] Many tried again to penetrate to the high priests to carry out 
their intention to anoint Me, but they hid themselves so well that no trace of them 
could be found, and therefore, those who were sent had to return without any 
result. 


[GGJ.n_67,30] When these forced their way to Me to wildly surround Me, I 
ordered them to stay calm and said to those who wanted so much 253 to have a 
king: “Tell Me, can someone who stands before God and carries His power, still 
be placed higher on Earth than He is already standing before God?” 


[GGJ.n_67,3i] The leader of the group said somewhat perplexed: “Master, he 
himself probably not, but those who adhere to him want nevertheless a visible 
sign of his power - also outerly, so that the people will become happy under his 
powerful hand and not be oppressed.” 



[GGJ.ii_ 67,32] I said:” When Samuel anointed Saul as king on the demand of 
the people, what did the people gain by that? Certainly not peace or quietness, but 
battle and unrest. And why? Because the people became tired of the soft yoke that 
the Lord put on them according to their actions, and they strove for the mighty 
hand of a visible ruler. Furthermore, there was no shortage of kings, and also now 
you have received a king in Herod. Do you now believe that a new king which you 
seek in Me will bring you peace if he also wanted to be an outer, mighty king? 
Herod and the Romans would try to destroy all his adherers and also him. Misery, 
war and need would be stirred up if I would become your earthly king. And how 
could this agree with My teaching: ‘Love your fellowman as yourself if I would 
bring you war and murder? So give up what is exterior to Me - My Kingdom is 
not of this world - and establish in yourselves the true kingdom of peace. There I 
gladly always want to be and remain your king.” 


[GGJ.ii_ 67,33] After these words, those who were in favor of a king, became 
surly, left Me and thought that I was no hero of whom the people of Israel could 
also expect an outer salvation. 


[GGJ.n_67,34] Those who shouted to have a king went now among the people 
and did not hide their resentment at My refusal. Nevertheless the rest of the 
people did not turn away from Me at all, because My deeds made a too big 
impression on them to immediately reject Me because of the fact that I refused to 
be king of the Jews. 


[GGJ.n_67,35] After the great commotion, the people calmed down, and I as well 
as My disciples took the opportunity to explain again My 254 teachings to many. 
So now there were large separate groups scattered in the courtyards of the 
temple. 


[GGJ.n_67,36] Then it happened that 2 Greeks arrived, who also came to the 
Feast but who did not witness the whole scene from the beginning. However, it 
was forbidden for non-Jews to come into the holy place for which reason warning 
signs were put at the boundary to indicate up to which point non-Jews were 
allowed to come. 


[GGJ.n_67,37] The Greeks saw Philip standing at the boundary and they told 
him that they would like to see Jesus and if possible to speak with Him. However, 
Philip did not dare to let the two come to Me because he thought that the 
prohibition should be respected. That is why he told Andreas and they both went 
to Me while I stood in a circle of many observers who listened to My words, and 
they presented the request of the 2 Greeks and also said that they did not dare to 
come to Me because of the people. Then I told them to send the Greeks to Me. 
Now they both went to tell them. Nevertheless, the Greeks were afraid to violate 
the prohibition and therefore they remained standing at the boundary. 


[GGJ.n_67,38] The temple Jews, priests and Pharisees noticed that the mood 
was much more peaceful now, and some of them came among the people 
disguised as spies to examine the situation. They soon made common cause with 
those who wanted to have a king and who were now very displeased about Me - 
this in order to agitate the people against Me and to stir up hostility. One of the 
disguised agitators stood now close to Me and directly spoke in a displeased 
manner to those who stood around, saying how I could order gentiles to enter the 
Jewish holy place and to make it unclean in this manner. Was this worthy of a 
Messiah whom I wanted to be and despise the holy customs? Some of them who 
also did not like My invitation, agreed with the speaker so that there was a 
mumbling going on. 


[GGJ.ii_67,39] I very well noticed this and said to John and Lazarus, who always 
remained close to Me, as well as to the other disciples: “Now the time has come 
that the Son of man will be glorified, for now He has conquered Himself entirely. 
Truly, truly, I say to you: 255 unless the grain of wheat falls into the soil and dies, 
it will remain alone, but when it dies, it will produce many fruits. So also, My 
actions which you can see now, will produce many fruits.” 


[GGJ.n_67,40] Referring to the Greeks, who respectably stood at some distance, 
I spoke now loudly: “He who loves his life will lose it, and he who hates his life in 
this world, will receive it for life eternal. If someone wants to serve Me, let him 
follow Me, and where I am, the servant will be also. And he who serves Me will be 
honored by My Father.” 


[GGJ.n_67,4i] Now the speaker who previously spoke quietly against Me, 
continued to agitate by saying: “A nice Messiah is this, who invites heathens and 
everyone to serve Him so that the Father may honor Him. Who is His Father 
anyway? Hating my life to receive an unknown eternal life? No thanks. Then I 
surely prefer what I know.” 


[GGJ.n_67,42] In the same manner also the other disguised temple Jews were 
against Me and tried cautiously to set up the people against Me. 



[GGJ.ii_67,43] Now My soul felt that My hour had come and became sad 
because of the upcoming suffering that was at hand and because the people was 
so unstable. Therefore, I said to those who stood near to Me: “Now My soul is 
sad. And what shall I say? Father, save Me from this hour? But this is why I came 
into this hour. O Father, glorify Your name!” 


[GGJ.n_67,44] Then a voice sounded as if from the sky which actually sounded 
in the hearts of all who could somehow still be awakened to a spiritual life: “I 
have glorified Him and will glorify Him again!” 


[GGJ.n_67,45] Those who heard this inner sensation, said now, according 
to what measure their spirit was awake: “It was thundering”. Others said: “An 
angel spoke to Him.” 


[GGJ.n_67,46] However, none of them felt the voice in themselves but put it 
outside of them according to what measure they were awakened. 


[GGJ.n_67,47] Therefore, I said to them: “This voice did not sound for My sake 
but for your sake, for now comes the judgment over this world. Now the prince of 
darkness, who was a prince of this world, is being cast out. No one is standing 
anymore between the Father and His child but only the Son of man. And when I 
will be raised from the Earth, I will draw them all to Me so that they will come to 
the Father.” 


[GGJ.n_67,48] Then the speaker and those who agreed with him, 
answered again: “We heard from the law that Christ will remain eternally. Then 
how can You say that the Son of man will be raised? Who is that Son of man 
about whom you speak? Can anyone rise higher than being eternal and bringing 
us his kingdom?” 


[GGJ.n_67,49] Now I answered them since I well perceived that My words were 
continuously turned around by these stubborn ones: “The Light is still with you 
for a short time. Walk while you still have the light so that darkness will not 
overtake you. Whoever walks in darkness does not know where he goes. Believe 
in the Light as long as you still have it so that you may be children of the Light 
and not become children of darkness.” 


[GGJ.n_67,50] After I had spoken these words I turned away from this group 
and we went to the courtyards of the gentiles, the very limit up to where the non- 
Israelites could not come. 

 

[GGJ.u_67,5i] Meanwhile the priests and superiors of the temple were very well 
informed about the fact that the people had become peaceful and that I refused to 
openly overthrow the government in order to let Me be proclaimed lord and king. 
They further knew that at this moment there was some kind of resentment 
because of it and they quickly tried to make use of this mood. All the priests and 
Levites were quickly called up to form a marvelous procession. Trumpet players 
walked ahead, and heralds proclaimed to the people that the high priest was 
commanded by the Lord to offer a great exceptional expiatory sacrifice for the 
sins of the people because the Lord was pleased with them and He forgave all the 
sins which were committed by the people during the past half year. They went out 
with all glittering and great festive glamour, and Caiaphas himself made the 
offering on the big burning altar of the temple. 


[GGJ.n_67,52] Through this action the temple had reached their goal since the 
people were still very much attached to old ceremonies and to everything that was 
related to the temple. In this way a great counterforce was used which made a 
deep impression because it was so unique, and even within half a day nothing 
could be noticed anymore of the great excitement of the people that arose at My 
entry. The temple showed itself very merciful on this day and the days after, and 
much food and money was given to the poor in the courtyards. Prayers were said 
and all possible effort was made to arouse a good mood towards the temple and 
its representatives and to prevent in this way the frightening danger that was 
threatening by My influence. 


[GGJ.n_67,53] The glittering procession came forward at the moment that we 
reached the courtyards. With great curiosity everyone was looking at the unusual 
spectacle and we made use of this opportunity to leave the mighty building and 
return to the house of Lazarus. 


Chapter 68 


NICODEMUS AND THE SUPERIORS WITH THE LORD 


WE arrived there after a short time. Everyone was silent along the way and My 
followers often looked at Me worriedly because it seemed clear to everyone that I 
wanted to gain an important victory but they all could not understand why it 
ended in a failure. Where was My miraculous power which could have confirmed 
My mission so easily by an outer sign? Because healing the sick was to them 
already something common, something which also My disciples could perform 
with success and it was therefore nothing special to the people. They also had 
their doubts concerning the voice from the sky because it did not sound mighty 
enough to make an end to all doubts. 


[GGJ.ii_ 68,2] All these questions were discussed in detail after we arrived in 
Bethany and I had withdrawn to a lonely room in order to gather and strengthen 
Myself - that means My soul. It was especially Judas in the group of My nearest 
disciples who was upset about the apparent failure, and he also said openly that 
My too great meekness and goodness prevented Me to powerfully step up to the 
people. 


[GGJ.n_68,3] He (Judas) said: “The Lord is certainly a Man with very special 
power and wisdom, and I absolutely do not doubt that He and no one else is the 
expected Messiah, but that mighty Spirit that often lives in Him as a flash of 
lightning and its exceptional power is enclosed with a too weak covering which 
still shows too many weaknesses to the people. It is not only meekness and 
goodness that rule the world, but it is also the fist that knows how to direct the 
sword, and that acts, if necessary, with bloody severity, that will guarantee 
success. If the Lord would be forced to protect Himself and His followers against 
the greedy executioner’s assistants, then the power of God that lives in Him will 
have to act quite differently to prevent Him and His followers to perish so that 
His work would flourish. But in this manner He always failed.” 


[GGJ.n_68,4] Peter said to him: “Judas, did you then never see how often the 
Lord as well as we were in danger and that we would have perished a long time 
ago without the power that lives in Him? Just remember how He commanded the 
storm, and how often the attacks of the temple were prevented which the servants 
of justice sent us.” 


[GGJ.n_68,5] Judas answered: “And still, this is no proof, because there were 
always such favorable circumstances present so that maybe we also could have 
saved ourselves out of all those dangers by our own strength. No, I believe that if 
He suddenly would be threatened by a physical danger that everyone will see and 
fear - will the Lord then not have to act much more powerfully? Will the people 
then not adhere to Him much differently and not turn against Him again by a 
silly, glittering game of the temple?” 


[GGJ.n_68,6] Peter and the others, shaking their head, thought: “How can 
this happen and who will decide that? The Lord will surely know best what He 
plans to do and how to act.” 



[GGJ.ii_68,7] Now Judas kept quiet, was thinking and remained the rest of the 
day gloomy and did not say anything. 

[GGJ.n_68,8] It was quiet in Lazarus’ house now and nobody disturbed Me 
while I stayed alone in My little room and dialogued with My Father in Me. 
However, no human being will fully understand how the latter was possible. 
Therefore, it should be said here that My soul saw very well how it would be 
possible to escape all the suffering, and that he hesitated because he also was 
chained to the Earth, just like the soul of any other human being who needs to 
accomplish a task. Only the Spirit in Me, of whom everyone knows who that was, 
prescribed the road to Me and asked the soul to choose, whether he out of love for 
Him and the people wanted to go the indicated way or not. And so, in the end, the 
decision came closer again, and the Son of man chose again for the ways of the 
Father. 


[GGJ.n_68,9] When evening came I went again cheerfully to My followers and 
instructed Lazarus to take care of our physical well being. Then this was done 
abundantly, and we took a nightly meal with the 12, Lazarus and his sisters, as 
well as Mary Magdalene who since My previous visit had not left Lazarus’ house. 


[GGJ.n_68,io] After taking the meal, a servant of Lazarus entered announcing 
that several men stood outside who wanted to speak with Me and Lazarus but 
without being recognized. Lazarus asked Me who they were. 


[GGJ.n_68,n] I answered him: “They are a few superiors of the people, and 
among them is also Nicodemus. Driven by what happened today they come to see 
us. But they fear the world more than God. Therefore they come to see us in 
disguise and at night - although with good intentions but nevertheless as secret 
as possible.” 


[GGJ.n_68,i2] Then I turned to the servant and told him to invite the strangers 
to come to us and that he should tell them that they could come openly because 
there was nobody among us who would betray them. 


[GGJ.n_68,i3] After a short while the strangers came in. They were Nicodemus 
and 3 higher Jewish officials, family of him, who occupied important positions in 
Jerusalem, nevertheless all of them were more or less dependent on the temple. 
260 


[GGJ.n_68,i4] Nicodemus rushed to Me at once and emotionally grabbed My 
hand while he asked Me not to show Myself here at least during the first coming 
time because the temple had reached the top of their anger by My appearance 
today, and Caiaphas as well as the High Council had sworn to make Me harmless 
at any price. 


[GGJ.n_68,i5] My adversaries thought that I succeeded this time to turn away 
the danger because of My unwise actions. But who knows, will that still be 
possible next time? So they had to act fast before I succeeded to turn the people 
again in My favor, since they were now discouraged because of My hesitating, but 
they also could be quickly enflamed again by a swift deed of Mine. 


[GGJ.n_68,i6] They also knew that Herod, the sly fox, was well-disposed 
towards Me, just like with John before, and only exploited the temple for his own 
purposes. And greedy for money as he was, rejoiced wholeheartedly about the bad 
situation in which the priests had come with the people. Therefore, they had to 
act faster to prevent that I would come in contact with him in order to receive a 
better protecting, for if the temple would need Herod’s protection against the 
people, this protection would cost an enormous amount of money because he did 
nothing out of love and would at least try to use Jesus as a trump-card against the 
temple. 


[GGJ.n_68,i7] So Nicodemus and also those who came with him were very 
anxiously worried about Me and asked Me urgently neither to trust Herod nor to 
expose Myself to the great danger that was now threatening from the temple. 
These only had dared to bring Me this news. Still many others from their group 
were well-disposed towards Me but did not dare to personally come to Me 
because of the Pharisees. 


[GGJ.n_68,i8] Now I said to Nicodemus and his friends: “My beloved, that 
which you announce to Me is known to Me for a long time and well considered by 
Me, for if the Father would not want everything to happen as it happened, would 
it then be so? And if the Father would not be with Me, would I then know what 
the coming time must bring Me? 


[GGJ.ii_68,19] So believe that all is well, just like it happened and also as the 
Father wants it, for he who believes in Me, believes not in Me but in the One who 
sent Me. And he who sees Me, sees the One who sent Me. 


[GGJ.n_68,2o] I came into this world as a light so that everyone who believes in 
Me would not remain in darkness but would walk in clear daylight. This is why I 
spoke before the people in this way, just like I always did. I also told them that My 
Kingdom is not of this world, and I also have always shown them the ways they 
should walk in order to obtain that Kingdom of Mine. 


[GGJ.n_68,2i] So whoever hears My words and does not believe them, I will not 
judge him for that, for I did not come to judge the world and to command it as a 
tyrannical king but to make the world blissful by the Word and to bring peace to 
it. Whoever will despise Me and does not accept My words will already have 
sufficient of what will judge him, for the Word that I have spoken and which will 
stay forever, will judge him on his youngest day on which he will leave this earthly 
world to enter into the eternal Kingdom where I will be the true King and will 
remain so forever. 


[GGJ.n_68,22] I did not speak out of Myself, but the Father who sent Me gave 
Me a command as to what I shall do and say. And I know that His command is 
eternal life. This is why I speak as the Father told Me. So do not worry about what 
is happening and what still will happen. The Father wills it so.” 


[GGJ.n_68,23] Then Judas was excited and said: “Lord, the Father is with You 
in His full power. Can this power leave You while You both are one?” 


[GGJ.n_68,24] I said: “The Father, the Son and the Power are one and will 
remain so, and they also can never be separated as you know. And the Father is in 
the Son and the Son also soon in the Father, united by the Power. But the Son 
must obey the Father, and if He does that, the Father will give him everything in 
possession. And the Son knows this because the Father told Him. And now it will 
take just a little while more, then the Son will be eternally in the Father. But how 
this must be obtained, is still not your concern, but it will be beneficial for you 
and the whole of humanity.” 


[GGJ.n_68,25] Nicodemus said: “Lord, we do not understand these words of 
Yours completely. Besides, it seems above all necessary that You think about Your 
own personal security. This is why we came here, especially to offer this to You at 
the best of our ability. So would it not be better that You should leave this place 
and hide? The son of my brother here can escort You safely, for he has many 
connections over the border where You can live for a while in complete safety.” 


[GGJ.n_68,26] I said: “Do not be so foolish. I do not need the help of men. If I 
wanted to destroy My enemies, this would be a little thing for Me. But I do not 
want it this way, for they also will share in the salvation, and with them all the 
people. I will stay here, and you can be sure that no one will catch Me before I 
Myself want it.” 


[GGJ.ii_ 68,27] Although Nicodemus was not immediately reassured because the 
fear of the temple kept on pursuing him, but finally he was satisfied with it and 
thought that he did what he had to do. I then also acknowledged his good will and 
he soon went with his companions, under the protection of darkness, back to 
Jerusalem where he arrived unhindered and without being recognized. 


[GGJ.n_68,28] We ourselves went soon to rest because also this day had 
required much effort from our bodies. We spent the night in great peace. Only the 
soul of Judas could not find it. Many thoughts and whisperings went through his 
soul so that he spent the night without sleep. 


Chapter 69 

CONVERSATION BETWEEN JUDAS AND THOMAS. DEPARTURE 
FROM BETHANY. STAYING AT THE JORDAN. 


WHEN morning arrived, Judas tried to see Thomas and take him aside. 


[GGJ.n_69,2] They both went outside and talked with each other in this way: 


[GGJ.n_69,3] “Brother”, said Judas, “can you actually understand the way of 
acting of the Lord? Look, we are both men who always knew what we wanted, and 
once we had a goal in sight we always pursued it with all our strength. However, 
here I cannot clearly see what the Lord really wants, and I also am not completely 
convinced anymore that He Himself can clearly see His final goal. 


[GGJ.ii_ 69,4] Yesterday, we were both witnesses of His victory, and we saw that 
He only would have needed little effort to bind the people who firmly adhere to 
Him, and this in such a way that they would have followed Him wherever He 
wanted. But instead of convincing everyone of His mission as the Messiah, He 
tolerates that the temple takes away all the fruits of His work out of His hands 
and He undertakes nothing of what the people is hoping for while there is truly so 
much power in Him that He could command the temple and the whole Roman 
kingdom if He would focus on it. 

 


 

[GGJ.ii_69,5] To what use is all His power of God to Him by which He 
commands storms, the sick and every disaster if He is in Himself so weak to not 
use that power when it is necessary? Should those who are healthy and suffer so 
heavily under the oppression of the Romans and the usury of the temple not find 
a Messiah in Him? What is the misery of a few sick people compared to the 
misery of the whole community? Judah, yes the whole world sighs under the 
oppression of that imperious people. Greedy kings and an almighty emperor who 
revels in wealth occupy the throne that should be occupied by a wise, just, very 
powerful ruler from God. The world would become a paradise. Suffering and 
sadness would change into joy and poverty into wealth if He would rule the 
throne which is now occupied by the emperor of Rome. 


[GGJ.n_69,6] Oh my heart trembles from joy in my bosom when I think how it 
all could be but how it is not. And why is it not so? Because He, the only One in 
whom the power of God lives, cannot find the courage in Himself for a fast, 
determined action. 


[GGJ.n_69,7] Look, brother, this saddens me, it makes me deeply worried, for I 
truly have still a heart for the deep misery of the people, but it seems to me that 
He, apart from the sick and the weaklings, has already lost His.” 


[GGJ.n_69,8] Thomas answered him: “Brother, what are you saying? Did the 
Lord Himself not say: ‘I did not come into the world for those who are healthy but 
for the sick and disabled, to help and to comfort them’? Do you want to know 
better why He came to us than He Himself?” 


[GGJ.n_69,9] Hot-temperedly, Judas answered: “And who is healthy in this 
country? Is not everyone sick and disabled? Only the temple and the big ones 
revel and fatten themselves with what they extort by their power, and the outer 
healthy body of the people is inside miserable, sick and spoiled by wrath and 
anger that is awakened by the way of acting of those supreme rulers. 


[GGJ.n_69,io] He surely came also for those people. Do the people only need a 
Messiah for the physically disabled? The people want to be and must be happy. 
This is the will of God, but that happiness has to go together with a safely 
maintained outer position, like the people enjoyed under Salomon so that they 
lived in peace, and with an outer prosperity they also could develop their soul. 



[GGJ.ii_69,ii] No brother, my heart is full of sorrow. I am opening it to you, for  
you are still the only one who did not hide his reason and opinion like the others 
who believe unconditionally without knowing why. No, I am not and do not want 
to be a slave of superstition. I want to know to where the road is leading. I do not 
want children’s games. I want to see manly deeds.” 


[GGJ.n_69,i2] Thomas was shocked about the furious looking Judas who 
disclosed his ideas so unexpectedly before him. And in a warning voice he said: 
“Brother, although I am someone who does not 265 easily believe, I am 
nevertheless convinced of what I once came to believe! If you want to make me 
wavering in my belief in the Lord - what I think - then this is useless, for I know 
what to think about Him! So leave me alone!” 


[GGJ.n_69,i3] Being agitated, Judas objected: “This is far from me! I also am 
firmly convinced that everyone can solely receive salvation from Him, but I am 
equally convinced that something has to happen to make this salvation come 
true! Now is the time, or never! 


[GGJ.n_69,i4] Herod is well-disposed towards Him. Right at this moment the 
power of the Romans is less significant here because they need their armed forces 
elsewhere. So everything is in favor to Him - the most powerful Man - if He only 
wanted. But to awaken the will in Him, that is what it is all about, for we saw how 
much He hesitated, and we have heard what the temple wants. If I only possessed 
a very small part of His power then I equally would mock the tricks of the temple 
as He has done up to now. That miserable vermin has certainly no power over 
Him. They never had before and will never have it. But it can be feared that God 
Himself will take away the power from Him if He resists God’s will to make His 
people happy. 


[GGJ.n_69,i5] Here in the Lord all the conditions are united which makes it 
possible to lay the power of God in Him. We will have to wait eternities before 
another man will arise and do such immense things. Therefore, He has to do it, 
now or never, before God’s tolerance runs out. If He does not find the courage in 
Himself to undertake that which is necessary because it was promised by God, 
then He must be forced to do it.” 


[GGJ.n_69,i6] Being shocked, Thomas jumped up and whispered: “To force? 
Who wants to force Him from whom the Almighty Himself speaks?” 


[GGJ.n_69,i7] “If He is the One whom He says He is, let Him prove it. If He is 
not, then why wait for nothing?” mumbled Judas half loud and somber.
 

[GGJ.ii_69,i 8] Being frightened, Thomas whispered: “How could He be forced? 
Brother, give up those thoughts. It is not good. I am terrified by it.” 


[GGJ.n_69,i9] Gloomily Judas said now: “You, weakling, are terrified of great 
thoughts? But I still do not know myself how this can be possible. I only feel: 
something must happen. It must. 


[GGJ.n_69,2o] Goodbye brother. Keep silent against the others about what we 
both discussed. Do you hear? Promise me. None of those inside do not love me 
much. I do not want more hate to come over me.” 


[GGJ.n_69,2i] Thomas reached out his hand and thought: “Who would benefit 
from my conversation? I promise you.” 


[GGJ.n_69,22] After a short greeting, Judas left him and went to the top of the 
Olive Mountain to be alone and think. But Thomas returned with an anxious 
mind to the others and he tried to fight his worries by having a calm conversation 
with the brothers. 


[GGJ.n_69,23] When we were now sitting down for the morning meal, with the 
exception of Judas, Lazarus asked what I had decided to do - whether I, which he 
preferred, wanted to spend the feast days with him, and if not, where I planned to 
go- 


[GGJ.n_69,24] On this, I said to him and the disciples that I planned to leave 
Bethany even today - not out of fear, but that I would do it for the sake of the 
people and the temple servants. These would do a lot of harm if they knew that I 
was here and not be reachable. In order to prevent this and to not cause harm to 
anyone I would hide Myself now for a few days and would not allow them to find 
Me. 


[GGJ.n_69,25] My followers asked Me to where I wanted to go. 


[GGJ.n_69,26] I said: “If you want to go with Me, you will see. However, a 
traitor sleeps among you, for this reason you should not yet know it.” 

[GGJ.n_69,27] The disciples were shocked about this statement and looked 
around in astonishment to see who I might mean. Not only the disciples were 
present here but also many of Lazarus’ house personnel who helped him with the 
management of his possessions. But none of them dared to ask one word about it. 


[GGJ.ii_ 69,28] We finished our meal in silence. Then I said goodbye to Lazarus 
and his family who very regretfully and with an anxious heart saw me leaving. But 
their belief in Me lifted them up above all worries that something might happen 
to Me through the temple. 


[GGJ.n_69,29] We turned towards the road to Jericho and soon we saw Judas 
coming to us who had noticed our departure from the hill and came to join us 
without looking at the not very happy looking faces of the apostles. Now I made 
this trip with the 12 only, and none of My remaining adherers was with us. 


[GGJ.n_69,30] We soon went into the direction of the Jordan where John had 
baptized, but since the voice of the preacher in de desert had died away, this spot 
was now completely desolate. So this is where we camped and we stayed there 
completely undisturbed. 


[GGJ.n_69,3i] This region is very pleasant, especially in springtime because the 
temperature is much warmer there. Luxuriant trees and bushes grew at the shore 
which provided cool shadows and safe resting places for everyone. Here at the 
Jordan we still spent 2 full days after we left Lazarus, and I used this time to once 
again clearly explain to the apostles their calling and My teaching. 


Chapter 70 

JUDAS BEFORE THE HIGH COUNCIL 


JUDAS listened also but could by that still not be liberated from his wrong ideas. 
On the contrary, he only became more convinced that if someone would appear 
after Me as Messiah to save the world he would not so easily succeed to unify the 
power of God with himself. He therefore considered it only praiseworthy and 
rejoiced in his ambitious ideas that he could be the one to prepare, in his opinion, 
the last necessary step that would force Me to, according to his wishes, make use 
of the power that was given to Me. He thought of himself to be some kind of 
savior and thought in his blindness to work through Me. Once the idea that he 
could force Me was awakened in him and his firm conviction remained that I 
could defy and also overcome every danger, everything that could contribute to 
execute this plan seemed all right to him. 



[GGJ.ii_ 70,2] Therefore, on the second day of our stay at the Jordan, he 
proposed to Me to go to Jerusalem without being recognized, in order to find out 
how the mood was towards Me and if the people had become restless after My 
disappearing. 


[GGJ.n_70,3] I told him that he could do as he thought, and the others, as they 
were glad to be rid of him, agreed with his proposal. 


[GGJ.n_70,4] He asked Me where he could find Me, and I told him that I will 
remain on this spot till the following day around noon time. 


[GGJ.n_70,5] Then Judas left us and went to Jerusalem. Soon he came to know 
that everyone was surprised about My sudden disappearance. Nothing was left of 
the great excitement that was caused by My entrance, and generally the people 
thought that I had fled before the might of the temple. The temple itself was 
heavily guarded by the temple guards and the soldiers of Herod. Moreover, 
Roman soldiers walked daily through the city in order to drive away possible 
gatherings. The temple sought already protection with the governor Pontius 
Pilate against a possible uprising and accused Me of being an agitator of the 
people. 


[GGJ.n_70,6] So also Pilate started an investigation by which it appeared that 
the people did not show any hostility but only a great enthusiasm for the 
miraculous Savior who was certainly not unknown to Pontius Pilate for a long 
time. So he did not attach more importance to it, but in order to maintain the 
order he regularly let groups of soldiers walk through the city. By these measures 
the people were greatly intimidated for they knew all too well that the power and 
severity of Rome had to be feared in case of riots. 


[GGJ.n_70,7] The temple had now again really an advantage and they thought 
that the time was ripe to strike a destructive blow against Me, that is if they only 
knew where and how they could catch Me without danger, because they often 
enough had experienced that this also was not so easy. 


[GGJ.n_70,8] In a secret Council, one time these and then again other ways and 
means were deliberated but the templers could not agree. Then they were notified 
that someone wanted to inform the High Council as to where the Nazarene was. 



 

[GGJ.ii_ 70,9] Caiaphas, overly rejoiced, let this man, who was Judas Iscariot, 
come to him and brought him to the High Council. There Judas told the Council 
that he was able to deliver the wanted Jesus from Nazareth into the hands of the 
temple guard if by that the necessary precautions were taken. 


[GGJ.n_70,io] When asked how he wanted to do that, Judas answered: “I have 
been near Him for quite some time and so I know the habits of Him and His 
adherers. There was even a time when I thought to see in Him the expected 
Messiah of the Jews, but now I convinced myself that He wants to overthrow the 
ancient honorable statutes and laws which stand under the sacred protection of 
the temple without being able to replace them with something more powerful and 
better. So He is dangerous, and as an honest Jew who has to do his best to uphold 
the respect of the Law of Moses, I offer my services to make an end to these 
dangerous activities. I do not know yet if it will succeed but where so many wise 
men are gathered it will certainly succeed to find the right means by which this 
Wonder Savior can be caught.” 


[GGJ.ii_70,ii] Caiaphas asked him: “Do you know where He is now?” 


[GGJ.n_70,i2] Judas said: “No, because I cannot know if He already left that 
place. But I know that He, as always, will also this year want to eat the Passover 
lamb among His adherers and that this will happen nowhere else than in the 
neighborhood of the city.” 


[GGJ.ii_70,13] One of the Pharisees, who after the awakening of Lazarus had 
been badly served, shouted: “Most of all let no one try to capture Him in Bethany! 
It would be useless there, because His devilish power would again appear there. It 
would be best to capture Him at night, on the one hand because of the people that 
strongly adhere to Him, and then I heard that the power of such magicians is 
weaker at night. At a certain hour even the worst magician would be as weak as 
any other human being so that he cannot resist anyone. Speak, you must know 
since you were near Him. Does this Man also have His weak hour? What does He 
do at night?” 


[GGJ.ii_ 70,14] “He sleeps like any other human being”, answered Judas. “I 
believe I know the hour when He is weakest.” 


[GGJ.n_70,i5] In triumph the Pharisee turned to the others and thought that 
this hour should be exploited. 




 

[GGJ.ii_70,i 6] Bad-tempered, Caiaphas did not want to hear about it because he 
was sure that the Nazarene did not possess any other supernatural powers than 
the Essenes who were sufficiently known for that, but he also was of the opinion 
that it was better to grab Him at night to avoid raising any sensation. 


[GGJ.n_70,i7] Therefore, they agreed with Judas that on the day of the Passover 
lamb he was to come to the temple at night where he would meet the servants of 
justice whom he would then lead to the Nazarene. 


[GGJ.n_70,i8] Now Caiaphas asked him what he wanted for this service. 


[GGJ.n_70,i9] Judas, who rejoiced internally because the High Council, as he 
thought, fell into the trap that he set up for them, rejoiced now even more 
because his plan would now even let him obtain a profit in money - which was 
not his intention in the beginning - and he asked for the 30 silver coins, which 
they also promised to pay him if he would come on the evening on which it had to 
happen. 


[GGJ.ii_ 70,20] Leaving the temple, Judas hurried now through the city and 
listened everywhere to come to know how the people of Jerusalem and also the 
big number of strangers were disposed towards Me. He found great amazement 
everywhere because of My apparent weakness, but amongst the people he did not 
find anyone who was not convinced of My power that had been proven many 
times and also clearly the last time. He clearly saw that later on I would succeed 
again to draw the whole people to Me as soon as an heroic deed would be 
performed by Me - and the people, although puzzled, had not really left Me. 


[GGJ.n_70,2i] It rejoiced him to know this and this strengthened him even more 
in his plan to bring Me into a situation that would force Me to resist My attackers 
and maybe to destroy them, or at least to make them harmless in such a way that 
everyone would clearly see that no one on Earth could resist Me if I just wanted it. 
When he thought to be thoroughly sure about everything and without involving 
Herod at that time - whom he apparently did not need anymore for his purposes 
because he thought that he also could manage without him - he went again on his 
way to the Jordan to look for Me and to report about what he came to know. 


[GGJ.n_70,22] He still met us on the same spot and reported now in detail about 
the mood in Jerusalem and how the people was still waiting for Me as the Savior. 
I quietly listened to all this and did not reply to anything, by which Judas was 
more convinced that his words made deep impression on Me. He had enough 
insight in human character not to insist with Me because he thought that his 
words had to ripe in Me. He was remarkable quiet but one could see that he was 
glad in himself and observant. 


Chapter 71 


THE PASSOVER LAMB. THE FEET WASHING. JUDAS BETRAYS THE 
LORD. THE EVENING MEAL OF THE LORD. 


WHEN noontime had come I told My followers to break up, and we walked back 
at comfortable pace to the big road between Jerusalem and Jericho. Now it was 
the day of the Passover lamb and My followers asked Me if and where I wanted to 
eat it with them. I answered that question in the affirmative and it was My wish 
that two of them should walk ahead of us into the city to prepare the lamb. After 
that I would follow with the others. 


[GGJ.n_7i,2] Now in the city there lived a man who belonged to those who were 
healed in the beginning of My time as Teacher when I personally appeared in 
Jerusalem for the first time. He was a loyal adherer of My teaching and was not 
afraid of the Jews and the jealous Pharisees. He had a small inn and wealthy 
guests visited the place, especially many Romans who traveled to Jerusalem, and 
therefore he had a good reputation with the people and was able to make a good 
living. This innkeeper had often invited Me through My disciples to stay with 
him. 


[GGJ.n_7i,3] I sent Peter and John to him to prepare the Passover lamb there. 
As a sign to know where his house could be found I told them that they should 
follow a man carrying a water jug which he would carry into that house. 


[GGJ.n_7i,4] They both were not unknown to the owner and when he heard 
about My request he immediately had his best hall in his house prepared, which 
he otherwise used for himself during family feasts, so that we could follow the 
tradition of the Passover lamb undisturbed. He himself, who was according to the 
temple an apostate Israelite who chose the side of the Romans, did not honor that 
tradition anymore, especially because he had a Greek wife with whom he lived 
according to My teaching without any kind of rules from the temple. 

 

[GGJ.ii_ 71,5] This is the owner of the tiled hall who was mentioned by the 
evangelists with the exception of John, because later it seemed very important to 
them to indicate where the evening meal had taken place, while John was only 
concerned about the words that were spoken on that occasion and not about the 
outer things. 


[GGJ.n_7i,6] When evening had come I arrived with My followers. After we were 
joyfully welcomed by our host and his family we were brought to the hall that was 
mentioned and he assured us that no one would disturb us there, and we installed 
ourselves to prepare the Passover lamb. 


[GGJ.n_7i,7] All that was said that evening was also precisely written down by 
the evangelist John and it can be read there. Just a few things should be 
mentioned here so that one should better understand how the events took place. 


[GGJ.n_7i,8] After we ate the lamb in the traditional manner, I stood up, girded 
Myself and began the foot washing in which the Son of man expressed the deepest 
humiliation because that was a task of the lowest servants and slaves. At the same 
time it shows that no one can walk My ways before I have cleansed the 
instruments for him which allow him to also walk these ways - so this means: his 
heart must be completely cleansed of all the dust of the roads of the world on 
which he walked up to then, and I am the One who will give him the means for 
that. Therefore, no one should fear these washings, otherwise he will have no part 
in Me. 


[GGJ.n_7i,9] So with this I gave the disciples a profound teaching by way of a 
symbol by which the latter is of course not the main thing but the core in it means 
everything. 


[GGJ.n_7i,io] As I cleansed My disciples, so also mankind should strive to 
cleanse one another so that they can truly follow Me with a pure heart, thus with 
washed feet. 


[GGJ.ii_7i,n] Now it was the custom that after the meal the lord of the house 
would still hand over a morsel of bread while saying a verse from the Scripture to 
the one who received that morsel of bread. This custom has not been preserved 
till the present day but was generally practiced and considered by many as a kind 
of prediction for the future. 



[GGJ.ii_ 71,12] While I was preparing it, My soul was overtaken by a great 
sadness, and I spoke the words: “One of you will betray Me.” 


[GGJ.n_7i,i3] The disciples, shocked by this statement which seemed obscure to 
them, besieged Me with questions as to what I meant and who might betray Me. 
But I declined every answer, and while I spoke to each one of them words of 
admonishment depending on their character I began to divide the pieces of bread. 
Peter, who was one of the first, was most disheartened by My statement. He 
indicated to John, who sat closest to Me, to inquire whom I meant. 


[GGJ.n_7i,i4] The ‘leaning on the chest’ has been widely misunderstood because 
many explanations came into existence as the language was not well understood. 
We did not he at the table like the Romans did as it is often indicated, but we 
were seated. The Jews did not accept that custom which was considered as pagan, 
just as they avoided everything that they might have in common with the pagans. 
The one to whom a special honor was given as a friend, sat at the right side of the 
lord of the house and was honored by him by preparing his food. When that 
happened, the lord of the house had to often turn to him - turning his chest to 
him. In the language of that time it meant that which is now translated as ‘leaning 
on the chest’ whereby a different meaning crept in that was not intended. 


[GGJ.n_7i,i5] Now John asked me in a low voice who it was, and since he was 
My disciple who was nearest to Me, I said to him: “It is the one to who I will give 
the piece of bread”, after which Judas received it with the words: “What you do, 
do it quickly.” 


[GGJ.n_7i,i6] The other disciples could of course not conclude from these words 
what I meant. But Judas, who was also shocked by My first statement since he 
thought that it was aimed at him, understood these words now completely as a 
request that approved his plans. He stood up quickly and went outside while 
triumphing inwardly. 


[GGJ.n_7i,i7] He was now filled so much with the pride of a future co-ruler 
whom he wanted to be, as well as the immense desire to draw fame and honor to 
himself without considering anyone else that Satan with all the pride devils took 
possession of his soul, glowing with desire to rule and to destroy all adversaries. 


[GGJ.n_7i,i8] Could I not have avoided all this? 
 

[GGJ.ii_ 71,19] Certainly. But here the Son of man stood before the choice to grab 
all the luster and all the honor of the world. So He had to come into a position to 
choose, and herein lay for Him the decision in the sense as indicated before. 


[GGJ.n_7i,2o] This is why I said to Judas after he left: “Now the Son of man is 
glorified, and God is glorified in Him. If God is glorified in Him, God will also 
glorify Him in Himself and He will soon glorify Him.” So this means: the Son of 
man will truly be God’s Son, and the Father will soon unite with Him for all 
eternity. 


[GGJ.n_7i,2i] Now I once more gave briefly My whole teaching to My disciples 
as you can read it precisely in John 14 and 17 with all the speeches and replies of 
the disciples, and the objections of Peter and Phillip and the replies to these. 


[GGJ.n_7i,22] With all these discussions it already became late, and now I took 
the bread again of which I had prepared the first pieces, and said to the eleven: 
“Let each one of you still take a piece that I prepare here. This is My body, the 
incarnated Word that has to become alive in you. Take also this cup, drink from it 
all of you, it is My blood that will be poured out for you for the forgiveness of your 
sins. He who will not eat My flesh and drink My blood will never become blessed. 
You know now how you should understand this and you will no more be offended 
at these wordsi. Eat and drink, and whenever you will do this, do it in 
remembrance of Me. Where two will do this in remembrance of Me and will come 
together in My name, I also will be amongst them.” 


[GGJ.n_7i,23] The disciples did now as I told them. Then we left the house after 
I also had thanked our host who lovingly said goodbye. 


Chapter 72 


JESUS IN GETHSEMANE. JESUS CAPTURED. 


NOW we left the city through the gate in the direction of the Olive Mountain. So 
there is the garden which is now still called Gethsemane but in a totally different 
location. The garden Gethsemane belonged to that inn on the Olive Mountain 
which belonged to Lazarus and was known as a favorite spot for outings. Below CO 
that inn, which lay on the hill and offered a wide view, there was like a park, and a ^ 
very pleasant path went through it going up the hill. The park itself was the actual 
Gethsemane and is thus located in a totally different place from the one that is 
shown now and has only the name in common. The very old trees that are present 
there made it probable to the later visitors that they found the right place. 


[GGJ.ii_ 72,2] We often gathered with that innkeeper, and therefore Judas 
believed also that he would certainly find Me there, since otherwise I would not 
have left Lazarus to be alone with My disciples. The park itself offered an ideal 
place for inner meditation because of the great silence there, and therefore I 
brought the disciples to that place so that they once more could reflect upon the 
latest events. 


[GGJ.ii_ 72,3] We searched for a place besides the path, and I asked Peter, John 
and James to come with Me and go a little further, away from the others. That is 
what they did, and they followed Me. 


[GGJ.n_72,4] Now came the moment that the whole weight of the coming 
affliction came down on the soul of the Son of man, and the deity again drew back 
entirely to leave the completely free decision to the human Jesus. 


0 See Book 2141:2.) 


[GGJ.n_72,5] Therefore He felt the dreadful hour and said: “My soul is 
saddened unto death.” Then He also said to the three: “Stay here and watch with 
Me.” 


[GGJ.n_72,6] He went a little further and prayed the words: “Father, if possible, 
let this cup pass away from Me - but not as I want, but as You want.” 


[GGJ.ii_ 72,7] But since these words did still not express the personal determined 
decision, the deity did still not return in Him. 


[GGJ.n_72,8] Jesus went back to His own and found them sleeping. 


[GGJ.n_72,9] From this He saw that He only could find support with the Father 
in Him. He woke up the three and spoke the well-known words: “Can you not 
watch with Me for one hour? Watch and pray so that you will not fall into 
temptation. The spirit is willing but the flesh is weak.” 
 

[GGJ.ii_72,io] With these words He did not only mean the three but also 
Himself. 


[GGJ.ii_72,ii] Now Jesus went back and prayed again: “My Father, if it is not 
possible for this cup to pass away from Me then I will drink it and Your will be 
done.” 


[GGJ.n_72,i2] Again, driven by unrest, the soul sought external contact with His 
own. He found them again sleeping, and so deeply that they did not wake up but 
only moved drowsily when He called them. 


[GGJ.n_72,i3] Now Jesus, the Son of man, had overcome. 


[GGJ.n_72,i4] With a glance of compassion He looked at His own, hurried back 
and called out loud: “Father, I know that it is possible for this cup to pass away, 
but only Your will be done, and therefore I want to drink it!” 


[GGJ.n_72,i5] Then the deity returned in Him completely and strengthened 
Him, penetrating into Him completely and spoke: “My Son, You had to take Your 
decision for the last time. Now Father and Son are united in You and have 
become eternally inseparable. Carry what has been given You to carry. Amen.” 


[GGJ.n_72,i6] Then I stood up again and walked to My disciples who lay down 
sleeping again, woke them up and spoke: “How can you sleep now and leave Me 
alone in the most difficult hour? Watch and pray so that you will not fall into 
temptation, for the spirit is indeed willing but the flesh is weak. But you must 
always be strong. Look, now the hour has come that I will be delivered up to My 
enemies. So do not sleep and be strong.” 


[GGJ.n_72,i7] At that moment a group of temple guards came near with torches 
and led by Judas. He wanted to bring them to the inn where he thought to find 
Me there. The disciples asked Me what this meant. But I told them to step back 
and walked on the path towards the group. When Judas saw Me, he came to Me, 
greeted Me and wanted to kiss Me as a sign of identification for the armed temple 
servants. But I prevented him and said: “Judas, are you betraying the Son of man 
in this way? It would have been better for you never to be born.” 


[GGJ.n_72,i8] Then I turned to the group of people and asked them with a 
mighty voice: “Whom are you seeking?!” 


[GGJ.ii_72,19] The leader answered: “Jesus of Nazareth.” 


[GGJ.ii_ 72,20] Then I made Myself known with the words: “It is I” and walked a 
few steps closer to them. 


[GGJ.n_72,2i] But the temple guards drew back because they heard a lot about 
My power and were afraid of it, for which reason Caiaphas had chosen only 
helpers who did not know Me yet. A few of them who stood in the back fell even 
to the ground because of the impact of those who stood in front. 


[GGJ.n_72,22] Since the helpers stood there hesitating and fearful, I asked them 
again: “Whom are you seeking?” 


[GGJ.n_72,23] And at the repeated answer of the leader I said again: “I told you 
that it is I. But if you seek Me, let these here go.” 


[GGJ.n_72,24] Now when the helpers noticed that nothing was happening to 
them, they were ashamed of being afraid before, pushed toward Me and soon 
surrounded Me while the leader shouted at them that they only had to guard Me 
since the command of the high priest was that they only should capture Me. 


[GGJ.n_72,25] But Peter, who noticed now that a serious danger was threatening 
Me and no miracle was happening to free Me, he drew the sword which he always 
carried hidden with him and rushed up to Me. Malchus resisted him by keeping 
him off with his spear. Then Peter struck him and cut off Malchus’ ear. 


[GGJ.n_72,26] Now I called out to Peter: “Put your sword back into the sheath! 
Shall I not drink the cup that My Father has given Me?” 


[GGJ.n_72,27] Then Peter drew back. I touched the injured ear of the helper and 
it was immediately healed. This deed amazed the helpers, so that they no longer 
bothered about the disciples and they were only concerned to lead Me away. 


[GGJ.n_72,28] Now that I took everything in silence and also allowed them to 
bind My hands without any resistance, they talked among each other, being 
surprised and wondering why they told them that they had to use extreme 
violence since capturing such a man was really dangerous. Judas stood by, 
waiting for something to happen by which the guards would be frightened. But 
since noting happened he was now all the more convinced that My power would 
unfold before the High Council. 


Chapter 73 


THE HEARING AND THE CONDEMNATION OF JESUS 


THE march walked now over the Kidron through the same gate through which 
My entrance took place. The temple guards brought Me first to Hannas who was 
the brother in law of the high priest Caiaphas. Hannas was the first to whom I 
was taken because he was the representative of Caiaphas and had always been 
very active in this matter and therefore the news was brought to him first that it 
succeeded to capture Me. 


[GGJ.ii_ 73,2] Nota bene: It is absolutely not the intention to repeat here 
everything that is already stated in detail in the gospel of John because this 
writing must not make the gospel of John unnecessary. However, the following 
historic events will only fill in the gaps of what seems to be lacking. 


[GGJ.n_73,3] The manner in which Hannas received Me and also the fall of 
Peter can be read there. 


[GGJ.n_73,4] Hannas sent Me bound to Caiaphas. 


[GGJ.n_73,5] Judas, who realized now that everything seemed to happen 
differently than he expected, saw how I was led away, and being perplexed and 
full of fear for the success of his intention he followed the march. He also wanted 
to walk through with Me to the high priest but the entrance was denied to him. 


[GGJ.n_73,6] At Caiaphas’ place the whole High Council was gathered, and they 
were already waiting for a long time for My appearance, looking for revenge. Now 
accusations were formally brought against Me, and witnesses arose against Me 
who had to testify that I committed high treason, and especially the entrance 
[GGJ.ii_mfo Jerusalem ] was used against Me, and also that I had dared to walk 
on the holy place by which I attributed priestly power to Myself which I did not 
possess. After that, it was accurately proven that I wanted to stir up the people 
against the Roman emperor in order to make Myself king. But when it came to it 
to find witnesses for this who could under oath confirm My intent by My words, 
they did not find anyone. 


[GGJ.n_73,7] Finally the witnesses came forward who stated that I had said: 
‘Break this temple down and I will rebuild it in 3 days.’ 


[GGJ.n_73,8] Caiaphas said now that this was an insult against the temple itself, 
for in order to accomplish this, divine authority was needed which can only 
possess the Anointed of the Lord who will once come in great power. But I had 
said that I was Christ, the Anointed One, and therefore he adjured Me to say 
whether I really was Christ, the Son of God. 


[GGJ.n_73,9] On this I answered: “You have said it. But I say to you all: from 
now on it will happen that the Son of man will sit at the right side of the Power 
and will go in the clouds of Heaven to the Father who lives in Him.” 


[GGJ.ii_73,io] Then the high priest tore his clothes and said: “He has 
blasphemed God! What other witnesses do we need? You have heard His 
blasphemies!” 


[GGJ.ii_73,ii] Of course, the others agreed immediately, for in the Council only 
those were gathered whom Caiaphas knew that they were dedicated to him and 
compliant. But those who were in one way or another friendly disposed towards 
Me - which became already apparent during the last meetings - the purpose was 
to capture Me and to keep the betrayal of Judas hidden. Therefore, the death 
sentence was soon ready and it was only a matter of receiving the approval of 
Pontius Pilate. 


[GGJ.n_73,i2] Very early in the morning I was taken there and the case was 
presented to the governor. I was a rebel and a blasphemer and as such I was 
guilty to be put to death. 


[GGJ.n_73,i3] Pontius Pilate who knew everything about My entry and could 
not find any rebellious act in it, tried to save Me, because he as a Roman was 
inclined to see in Me some kind of demigod with exceptional powers. Now he 
spoke to Me as one can read in the gospel of John, and he said to the temple 
servants, who were standing before the courthouse, that he did not find Me guilty. 


[GGJ.ii_ 73,14] Then one of the high priests came forward and he explained to 
him once more that I had traveled through the country, preaching against the 
temple and its servants who surely were the highest authority in the country and 
representatives of God. On this occasion it was said that I was from Galilee. 


[GGJ.n_73,i5] Pilate was glad to hear this statement because he saw an escape to 
put the whole matter off his back. Galilee stood under the supreme authority of 
Herod, and therefore he was the one who could make a judgment in this. So he 
quickly closed the hearing and ordered to send Me to Herod to speak out justice 
on one of his citizens. 


[GGJ.n_73,i6] Herod was very pleased when I was brought to him because now 
his wish to personally see Me was fulfilled and now he wanted to convince himself 
as to what was true of the many rumors about My miraculous power. He had Me 
immediately brought before him and ordered those around him to leave. We 
stayed alone. He expressed his amazement that a Man as I, who possessed 
exceptional powers, had let himself be captured, and he wanted to know how this 
could have happened. But I did not give him an answer so that he became 
embarrassed and he explicitly wanted an answer from Me. Since I remained silent 
he became more and more irritated and became enraged about this so that he 
rushed to Me and threatened to torture Me. I only calmly looked at him and 
immediately the old sinner trembled so much in his heart by that glance that he 
fearfully called out to his men. I became extremely terrifying to him, and to hide 
his fear he mocked Me now in the presence of his servants of the court who 
obviously supported at once the mockery words of their ruler. 


[GGJ.n_73,i7] Herod saw now that he was misled in his hope to achieve 
something by supernatural power, and now he wanted at least to take as much as 
possible advantage of the whole situation. Therefore he commanded to take Me 
back to Pilate while he indicated in polite words that he gladly wanted to be 
submissive to the sovereignty of Rome and renounced his right to judge one of his 
citizens who, according to the statement of the temple, also tried to resist the 
sovereignty of Rome. With a white robe that Herod ordered to give to Me as a 
sign of submission, I returned to Pilate again who was not exactly pleased about 
My return, but rather about Herod’s way of acting which later on achieved also a 
complete reconciliation between the two rulers. 


[GGJ.n_73,i8] Meanwhile, Pilate had been warned by his wife who saw in a 
dream how the good and the bad ones were separated by the Son - and he tried 
to set Me free. Therefore he came upon the idea to suggest to the people to release 
Me, since it was the custom at the time of Passover to free a criminal whom the 
people could choose. 



[GGJ.ii_ 73,19] However, the priests and temple servants incited all their 
adherers who were standing in front of the courthouse, and they did not allow 
anyone of the other people to be with them so that the intimidated crowd who 
adhered to Me were not standing close by but rather the clan of the temple who 
tried with all might to reach their goal, namely to get rid of Me. Since Barabbas 
had a good reputation with the temple, as already mentioned before, on the 
question of the governor which prisoner he had to release they immediately 
shouted ‘Barabbas!’, this according to what they had agreed, and they demanded 
that I should be crucified by which it was always emphasized that I was a rebel 
and was against the emperor. 


[GGJ.n_73,2o] Pilate did not know what to do anymore because even if enough 
accusations were brought against Me he personally could not agree with them. 
Now he thought that only a flogging would impose a sufficient punishment upon 
Me and so he gave command to it. Consequently I was flogged. 


[GGJ.n_73,2i] After this punishment the helpers brought Me out in a very 
miserable condition in a purple cloak and crowned with a crown of thorns, 
because Pilate hoped that this sight would bring the Jews to have pity so that he 
could set Me free. 


[GGJ.n_73,22] But the heart of the Jews was harder than stone, and again they 
shouted: “Crucify Him! Crucify Him!” 


[GGJ.n_73,23] Pilate repeated that he found no guilt in Me that was worthy of 
death and that I had been punished enough. 


[GGJ.n_73,24] Then those who stood in front and most embittered Pharisaic 
priests shouted: “He has to die, for He was blasphemed God! He claimed to be 
God’s Son, and according to our law the one who blasphemes God must die!” 


[GGJ.n_73,25] When he heard that, Pilate was frightened even more, because his 
Roman idea that I could be a demigod received now new nourishment. Therefore, 
he entered the house again and the helpers brought Me back in again. And he 
asked Me where I came from, that means My ancestry and from which country I 
was, because he wanted to believe Me, not My accusers. 



[GGJ.ii_ 73,26] But I did not answer him - and this out of exhaustion. Pilate 
asked again, as it is written in John chapter 19, verse 10. Also the further events 
happened according to verses 11,12 and 13. 


[GGJ.ii_73,27] Now Pilate, who was frightened because he knew the temple and 
knew that they would do anything when they wanted to persist, wanted to make 
an end to the case and sat down on the judgment seat, a ceremonial custom with 
the Romans when an indisputable sentence had to be spoken out. He presented 
Me again to the people and asked whom he had to release. 


[GGJ.n_73,28] The adherers shouted again: “Barabbas!” 


[GGJ.ii_73,29] Now someone was sent to him to give him his freedom. Then 
Pilate pointed at Me and said: “See, here is your king! What must happen to 
Him?” 


[GGJ.n_73,30] Again the gang shouted: “Crucify Him!” 


[GGJ.n_73,3i] Pilate said mockingly: “Must I crucify your king?” 


[GGJ.n_73,32] Now one of the high priests came forward and said very 
emphatically: “We have no other king except for the emperor, but this One here is 
against the emperor and has made Himself king. The guilt is on Him.” 


[GGJ.n_73,33] Pilate said very seriously: “And what if nevertheless innocent 
blood will be spilled?” 


[GGJ.ii_ 73,34] “Then His blood will come over us and our children!” shouted 
the high priest loudly. And the adherers loudly exclaimed their agreement on 
this and repeated it many times. 


[GGJ.ii_ 73,35] Then Pilate saw that he could not help Me without bringing 
himself into serious trouble. He also feared that the Roman reputation could 
suffer by it if he would show too much weakness. 


[GGJ.n_73,36] As an outer sign that he felt free of the responsibility, he washed 
his hands in the presence of all the people and said (Pilate): “I am innocent of 
the blood of this righteous person, for according to our law He has done nothing 
wrong. It can be different according to your law, as you say, and therefore I hand 
Him now over to your law.” 


[GGJ.ii_ 73,37] Then he handed Me over to the temple guards who were ready, 
and they took Me immediately into custody, this at the same time when Barabbas 
was set free and loudly hailed by the people. 


Chapter 74 


CRUCIFIXION, DEATH AND BURIAL OF JESUS 


THE temple seemed to have won and wanted the death sentence that was 
pronounced to be carried out as soon as possible. 


[GGJ.n_74,2] What will follow now will not be a detailed description of all the 
tortures that My body had to endure, for these are things which the soul of no 
human being can understand. Only in a free, spiritual condition will it once be 
possible to understand to what extent that torment of death served to completely 
spiritualize My body and therefore also to contribute to the salvation of matter, 
although that torture was not necessarily needed. 


[GGJ.ii_ 74,3] Only a few errors will be corrected here and make a few things 
clear so that in accordance with the gospels, which, regarding to My physical 
death are quite accurate, a clear picture can be given of the last hours of the Son 
of man. 


[GGJ.n_74,4] Firstly we have to consider the carrying of the cross. It was a 
custom with the Romans that every criminal who was sentenced to death had to 
carry his wood of death himself to the place of execution, and often, when the 
strength left him to do this, he was very cruelly tortured to make him carry out 
that punishment. Of course I was also not spared of this, and the strength of My 
extremely exhausted body left Me very soon so that I fell to the ground several 
times. 



 

[GGJ.ii_ 74,5] Simon of Cyrene, who adhered to My teaching and as such well- 
known to the priests, met the procession, and being horrified he watched My 
pitiful condition with compassion. 


[GGJ.n_74,6] Then one of the temple servants shouted at him scornfully: 
“Look there at your great Master who cannot help Himself. Now His deceit comes 
miserably into light.” 


[GGJ.n_74,7] Being disgusted, Simon answered him with a prophesying spirit: 
“The time will come when you will curse the hour that you all have done such 
thing. But I wish to serve my Master so that the way of suffering may become 
lighter for Him.” 


[GGJ.n_74,8] “That you will!” shouted several priests angrily. “Because since 
you dare to scorn the actions of the temple, we impose a penance on you and you 
will carry the cross of your Master!” When Simon heard that, he joyfully rushed to 
help, took the heavy cross on his strong shoulders and since I was lying on the 
ground, he also offered Me his hand so that I might find support. I took it, and 
Simons’ physical power was so much strengthened that it became easy for him to 
carry this heavy load. 


[GGJ.n_74,9] All My closest friends, who were not able to come near the 
courthouse during the sentencing, followed now. And a lot of people, who were at 
first frightened and stood at a distance when the adherers of the temple shouted 
‘crucify Him’, came closer now. They immediately showed a threatening attitude 
when the procession came near the gate where a large square made it possible to 
form a big gathering of people. But the Pharisees were afraid that this would 
happen and had therefore asked for a big group of Roman soldiers, and these 
waited for the procession at the gate towards Golgotha to keep order. 


[GGJ.n_74,io] When those who were well-disposed towards Me saw now that I 
was irrevocably lost and a possible violent rescue out of the hands of the servants 
of justice was impossible, a loud wailing was raised, mainly by women. 


[GGJ.ii_74,ii] Therefore, I turned to those who stood closest to Me and said to 
them: “Weep not for Me but for you and your children, for worse things will come 
over them than what you see happening to Me now. I go in to My Father but they 
will not know where they will be going.” 

 


 

[GGJ.ii_ 74,12] In the tradition of the church it is said that the maid Veronica 
offered Me a cloth to dry My sweat. This is true, for she stood in the first rows of 
the mourners. But the imprint of My face in this cloth is a legend that came up 
later, and it also should be said here that there was never a Jew Ahasverus in My 
time who drove Me away from his house. Both are myths that originated later 
from stories of pious minds trying to beautify My physical death with all possible 
miracles which also slipped into the gospels. 


[GGJ.n_74,i3] If all those things had happened while the body hang on the 
cross, as it is reported - the big earthquake, the darkening of the sun, the 
appearance of spirits and many other things - in that case, forced by those 
mighty signs, Jerusalem would have done penance in sackcloth and ashes even 
the same day and would not have looked at My resurrection with doubt but with 
joy and as a sign of forgiveness of all sins. But at the time that the body died, 
nothing happened that was so exceptional that it necessarily had to be related to 
My death. There was also no other possibility since the free will may not be 
affected, and if this main principle did not have to be maintained it would have 
been possible already earlier to use force by such miracles anyway. Everything 
happened in such a way that they also could have happened without My physical 
death, and therefore we will view more closely what those things were. 


[GGJ.n_74,i4] Now when I was taken to Golgotha - at that time the usual place 
of execution in Jerusalem - Judas Iscariot came rushing, and being totally 
desperate he tried to break through the circle that the temple guards had formed 
around the place. He was violently pushed back. And standing close by he 
watched with starring eyes, still hoping for something extraordinary to happen 
that would free Me. He always was near the place when My condemnation took 
place, and as it became more and more clear to him that My power had either 
disappeared here or that I did not use it, he became more and more afraid. 


[GGJ.n_74,i5] Finally he rushed back to the High Council and wanted to give the 
money back while he said that he betrayed innocent blood and seriously accused 
himself. Of course he was scornfully turned down with the remark that he had to 
see himself how he can work it out. In full despair he threw the money into the 
case of alms of the temple and ran outside, still clinging unto the weak hope that I 
would free Myself before the worst would happen. When he saw now that My 
body was thrown to the ground and put on the cross, when he heard the blows of 
the hammer that drove the nails through My flesh into the wood, he cried out 
loudly and rushed away from the place. Without looking behind him he ran to a 
287 solitary place where he hanged himself on a fig tree with his belt. 



[GG.J.ii_74,i 6] He dearly paid for his mistake, his lust for money and selfishness. 
About what happened to him after this will once be reported!. 


[GGJ.n_74,i7] It was only several days after his death that his corpse was found. 
It had fallen down from the belt and it was gnawed by dogs and jackasses. He was 
hastily buried in that same spot. 


[GGJ.n_74,i8] It is now reported that a darkness set in when My body hung on 
the cross. Yes, a big inner darkness came over Jerusalem, but no outer one. It was 
an inner one by which everyone had the feeling as if he had lost something 
without knowing what it was. And even the high priests, scribes, Pharisees and 
temple Jews who longed for My death did not find any satisfaction and felt no joy 
at their action. 


[GGJ.n_74,i9] This is also the reason why the temple did not make any attempts 
against My disciples and nearest relatives, also not against Nicodemus, Josef of 
Arimathea or Lazarus who all made a pilgrimage to My cross and were present in 
My last hour of life. It was especially thanks to the reputation of Nicodemus as 
member of the High Council that My followers received permission to stay very 
close by while the place was otherwise bordered by soldiers and no one was 
allowed to come through. At his recommendation an exception was made. My 
closest disciples however, with the exception of John, were not present, as I often 
predicted before. The Shepherd was slain, and so the sheep scattered. After My 
arrest some of them fled to Lazarus and the others went to hide away with 
friends, and they were hidden by them. 


[GGJ.ii_74,2o] Only John dared to show himself openly to be a support and 
encouragement to Mary, the mother of My body. 


[GGJ.n_74,2i] Peter, who after his fall was deeply seized by remorse, secretly 
followed the procession that brought Me through the streets of Jerusalem from 
the one ruler to the other, but he stayed far away from all the brothers because his 
soul felt the urge to be alone and it was only now that he gained full clarity 
regarding My actions to which end especially the training in Ephraim was very 
useful to him. He perceived the essence and the purpose of My earthly death and 
was also firmly convinced of its necessity as well as of My predicted resurrection 
in which he firmly trusted but without saying a word about it. 



[GGJ.ii_ 74,22] Regarding My last hours, the most important has already been 
said earlier, and whoever wants to recall them, may read: ‘The 7 Words of Christ 
on the Cross’i, then he will be sufficiently informed about My last hours. 


[GGJ.ii_ 74,23] When My soul separated from My body, there was indeed an 
earthquake, but this was again a phenomenon that did not attract too much 
attention because in that region in My time the subterranean powers of the 
Jordan Valley were far more perceptible than now. This is why earthquakes were 
not that rare. That this phenomenon was indeed related to My death did of course 
not come up in the minds of the hard Jews. 


[GGJ.n_74,24] It is also correct that the curtain in the temple was torn as an 
outer sign that there was now no more obstacle to reach the most holy place of 
the heart of the Father. Yes, that everyone could go there to receive eternal life. 
Nevertheless, also this phenomenon, no matter how astonishing, did not cause 
any sensation. The priests on duty hung up the curtain again, and with that the 
matter was solved. 


[GGJ.n_74,25] It is further reported that the sun lost its shine. It was already 
mentioned that no darkness had set in, but everyone knows that earthquakes in 
warm countries are often announced by a strong cloudiness in the atmosphere by 
which the sun loses its glance. And this is what happened also here in a similar 
manner. However, that the sun lost its glance had another reason from the usual 
one, although the phenomenon was the same. 


[GGJ.ii_ 74,26] It is also reported that the dead came out of their graves and 
appeared to many. This message has to be understood in the right, way, and 
everyone will understand it better when he considers the following. 


[GGJ.n_i See The Seven Words of Christ on the Cross, received by Anthonie 
Grossheim] 


[GGJ.ii_ 74,27] When My body had died and the big group of enemies had 
completely cooled down their vengeance, the people soon spread out because an 
inner terrifying feeling - the already mentioned inner darkness - made everyone 
to seek protection in his own house where, according to their statutes, the Jews 
had to prepare for the Sabbath that came near at sunset. 


[GGJ.n_74,28] My followers came now more and more close to the place of 
execution so that the group of those who were in favor of Me became quite big.
Josef of Arimathea had gone already earlier to Pilate, asking for My body - a 
favor that was not always granted. 


[GGJ.n_74,29] But Pilate gladly granted this to him because he wanted to annoy 
the Jews with this, as well as by the inscription on top of the cross in 3 languages 
which stated that I was the king of the Jews. 


[GGJ.n_74,30] My friends took the body immediately from the cross, cleaned it 
and anointed it, and carried it very carefully to a rock grave that belonged to Josef 
of Arimathea, on a piece of land that he had bought from Nicodemus in order to 
use it as his own last resting place in the future. 


[GGJ.n_74,3i] Although Golgotha was a rocky hill, it was located close by a 
densely populated exclusive residential area where many rich Romans and Jews 
had bought land and built beautiful country houses. This explains the proximity 
of the garden. 


[GGJ.n_74,32] They laid the body in the grave and protected it well from fear 
that the Jews would in their evilness also harm the corpse. 


[GGJ.n_74,33] But these were in turn afraid that My followers wanted to steal 
the corpse and then possibly claim that I was resurrected, for they heard and 
knew very well that the word about My predicted death and also about My 
resurrection was spread among the people. For this reason they asked Pilate for 
guards and he also granted this to them, even if it was only out of curiosity to see 
if something miraculous would happen as was generally expected by friends and 
feared by enemies. Thus guards were appointed - Roman soldiers - who had to 
guard the grave for 5 days long. 


Chapter 75 


CONCERNING THE DEATH OF THE LORD 


BUT what happened while the body was lying in the grave? And what was actually 
the compelling reason for My death? There will be a short but clear explanation 
about this now. So listen: 

 

[GGJ.ii_ 75,2] It has been often explained before that Adam as first human being 
on this Earth - that means as a human being with full spiritual freedom - was 
created to build a form from which matter could be led back to a free spiritual life. 
And most of all, overcoming matter itself was necessary to achieve this, and by a 
free decision of will, a condition had to be created which showed on the one hand 
the overcoming of all the lower characteristics, like worldly lusts, wrong desires 
and tendencies, in order to on the other hand make a free ascension to the purest 
spiritual life possible. 


[GGJ.n_75,3] It has been said often enough that the human soul consists of very 
small beginnings that develop to ever higher levels of consciousness to finally 
reach that form again in man and which cannot develop any further as an earthly 
form, except for what the form of the soul is concerned. So there are two 
principles in man: the end of the material life as highest developed self 
consciousness and the beginning of a soul life that is unchangeable in the highest 
attainable perfection of the form. Therefore, on this knife edge of earthly life man 
cannot ignore the awareness that he lives - for he himself is proof of that - while 
he still has no idea that he came at the doorstep of a spiritual life which has now 
its beginning in the unchangeable human form. In other words, after he went 
through many changes of physical forms - with the purpose to reach the human 
shape - this shape in its general form does now not change anymore. However, it 
is now that the soul begins to change with the purpose to come ever closer to the 
Spirit of God Himself and so to enter in communion with Him. 


[GGJ.n_75,4] Now he who can think, let him think. What can happen if this 
transition is not achieved, because here matter and spirit stand sharply against 
each other? They can both refine one another more and more, but - since they 
are polarities - they can never completely touch each other. Anyhow, a way must 
be shown here, a bridge built over which it is possible for matter to come to the 
spirit. And that bridge must be an example that everyone is able to follow. If that 
way were not found, that means: if someone would not walk on it, then it would 
become impossible to leave matter and come into a free, spiritual life. 


[GGJ.n_75,5] So the Deity Himself - who compelled His created beings to walk 
the way of matter out of love to save them, and after they had reached the border 
from where the way of the spirit is possible - had to strive to draw them to 
Himself and bring them in this way into the relationship of Father and child. 
Adam had to build that bridge in himself, and it was actually very easy for him 
since the attractions of matter were very weak compared to now. He only had to 
overcome himself - obedience - then the bridge would have been built and the 
spiritual life could have awakened and blossomed in him, because for man, who is 
for the rest free of every sin, obedience to God is the only means to test him. It is 
only after disobedience that automatically all other offences follow, as everyone 
can easily notice with children. Now Adam fell, and with that a withdrawal in 
matter had taken place - this means in that polarity - which can distance itself 
from God equally as far as it can ascend to God Himself to ever greater bliss. 


[GGJ.n_75,6] But with this fall, sin came into the world, because God never 
creates a work to destroy it again but continues to follow the way that was once 
taken and tries as it were to correct it, because divine wisdom takes the 
consequences of a failure into account beforehand. And when it comes to creating 
free created beings - not spiritual machines - then the way of self-development 
in man is truly the only way to it. However, when the human race divided into 
nations, a succession of all sins occurred, consisting of a long series, leading to an 
ever deeper fall, because its beginning - disobedience - was simply there. This 
means: if Adam had not been disobedient, also none of his descendants could 
have been disobedient because then he would have destroyed a germ in himself 
that could not be inherited anymore. However, in this manner he fertilized the 
germ, and it grew in his descendants to become a tree that hardly allows the light 
of the sun to shine through its dense roof of leaves. 


[GGJ.ii_75,7] Now often very strong souls have tried to break through this roof 
of leaves to let the sun shine through it, and although they succeeded partially, 
mankind possesses very ancient religions. But those strong souls did not succeed 
to reach the core of the tree and break its crown to such extent that this mighty 
tree had to die. And they did not succeed because they themselves were not 
without guilt in their earthly life since they first tasted of the world before they 
felt thirsty for the truth and knowledge of God. The world tasted nasty to them, 
and only after that did they seek something better. 


[GGJ.n_75,8] The old Indian religions are the oldest that you know, because the 
old Egyptian religion in its true teaching was the oldest but its knowledge has 
been lost. All those teachers were such strong souls. They broke through the roof 
of leaves for themselves, showing the way, and they described and declared what 
is true and real. Nevertheless, they could not write otherwise than for their time 
by which many things have become invalid now, which is easy to understand 
considering the circumstances. Concerning this, let us see the following: 


[GGJ.ii_ 75,9] Before the encasing in the flesh as Jesus, God was impersonal. 
This is why nobody could come to see Him but only feel His Being who could of 
course only show Himself as Light because God Himself is pure light that sends 
out His rays. But when there is light, it is everywhere. It streams through 
everything and awakens everything to life. However, the impersonality of God 
necessitates not one point from where the rays are shining, like from a sun, but a 
sea of light in which there is no concentration. So those who spiritually 
penetrated to the divine Being could not be aware of the divine Being in any other 
way than as a life in the light - floating and resting in the light, uniting with the 
light without any wish. Now when Jesus became the personification of God, 
experiencing the deity was very different for those who came near to Him - it was 
simply the drawing near of one person to another. Therefore, the old seers are 
right, but the newer ones, who lived after Me, are also right. 


[GGJ.n_75,io] However, after the fall of Lucifer, when the material world came 
into existence, the spiritual sun was created as the seat of the deity. But despite 
everything, it was not to be understood as a concentration existing in itself. The 
light in the spiritual world was everywhere, but to the physical man - as long as 
his soul was bound to that body - this spiritual sun did not become visible before 
My earthly life. The fact that it became visible was a crowning of the faith of the 
spirit-beings, for it was only visible to them - but now also to the person who 
believes in Me as soon as his spiritual eye is opened, because the Man Jesus can 
reveal His whole Kingdom at any moment to all who believe in Him. 


[GGJ.ii_75,ii] But the question remains: why can we find the same basic 
features in the old religions? 


[GGJ.n_75,i2] If it were not so, it would be surprising to the one who has 
understood these revelations, for if these old religions are forerunners of the 
teaching of the Son of man and Son of God, then they also must contain the main 
features of the latter. They cannot contain things that are different. That the lives 
of individual teachers who arose show similarities with Mine is based on the same 
fact. 


[GGJ.n_75,i3] If the old Egyptian religion would be entirely known it its oldest 
basic features - these only survived hazily in the present time by the later cult of 
the gods - then one would say: the Christian religion is derived from the old 
Egyptian religion. This is how strongly they look alike, especially if one would 
know the original meaning of the characteristics of Osiris, Isis and Horus. 


[GGJ.n_75,i4] However, to what extent did I succeed to break the tree of sins 
and not to only break through the roof of leaves? 


[GGJ.n_75,i5] In the first place everyone should clearly understand what it 
means “to sin”. 



[GGJ.ii_75,i 6] Many will soon be ready with the answer and say: sin is 
everything that is against God’s will. Although this is true, but what is God’s will 
actually, and how can man recognize it if he does not even believe in God and 
even less recognize His will? 


[GGJ.n_75,i7] But then we can know from the viewpoint of human life: No one 
can sin against God unless He came to know Him. No one can be offended when a 
blind man claims that there is no light only because he does not see it, and even 
less will God pressure the one who does not know Him because of his foolishness. 
However, a blind man can offend his neighbor or someone else when he resists 
him in one way or another - even though he does not see him but he can hear and 
feel him and he is able to receive and enjoy his direct good deeds. He can sin 
against his love, for despite his blindness he cannot deny that the person exists. 


[GGJ.n_75,i8] This is also the case with someone who is spiritually blind. He 
certainly can sin against the commandment of neighborly love, even if he does 
not know God. Neighborly love is the way to the love for God - this has often 
been explained. 


[GGJ.n_75,i9] Now since the Man Jesus fulfilled this commandment down to 
the smallest detail - and this since His youth - the love of God grew in Him so 
that He finally was absorbed by it. Sin had no power over Him for he strove to go 
from the initial visible way of neighborly love, which was apparent through outer 
works, to the inner invisible way in the love of God. 


[GGJ.ii_75,2o] God gave a commandment to Adam: unconditional 
obedience. He despised it and fell. Out of love for God the Man Jesus gave to 
Himself this commandment: not to do anything without the will of the Father, 
and through this He became the shining example to follow. So He achieved in 
Himself the level that Adam did not achieve, and in this manner He reconciled in 
Himself the deity who was hurt in His holiness by the commandment that was 
violated. 


[GGJ.n_75,2i] Wisdom gave the commandment. The will, the power, wanted its 
fulfillment. The love found the way in the Man Jesus to fulfill the conditions that 
were necessary to bring back the former state of happiness for all created beings. 
Salvation lies in the fact that this way, which leads directly to God, is now opened 
and that this way was fulfilled by the Son of man Jesus who became by that the 
Son of God. The death of Jesus is the seal of the unconditional obedience. Even 
though it was not necessary, but since mankind, with its unlimited free will and
by the influence of Lucifer demanded it, Jesus submitted Himself also to this 
demand and died physically. 


[GGJ.n_75,22] Falling from one sin into another brings about an ever greater 
hardness of the soul. One speaks of stony hearts to describe this condition. How 
far this can go cannot be overseen. Matter, the outer lust, keeps growing, and 
naturally the awareness of any spirit-soul essential core becomes lost more and 
more. This hardening leads finally to an animal condition which only knows 
preservation and procreation without inner spiritual freedom. Only a pure 
spiritual teaching can bring salvation from such condition and will lead to a moral 
awareness of human dignity, and this teaching was given briefly, could not be 
misunderstood and in the greatest possible clearness. Acting upon it will break 
the chains of matter, will release the bonds of worldly lust for pleasure and will 
finally lead the material wishes and desires to a condition of pure awareness as 
knowing evil, but no more doing evil because the ego will melt down more and 
more while this ego (selfishness) would otherwise outgrow more and more. The 
more the ego will fade away, the more the shackles of matter will loosen (soften) 
and they will finally be no more felt as shackles. 


[GGJ.n_75,23] So the tree of sin was and could only be broken by Jesus because 
in Himself He enclosed the Spirit of God who already gave the commandment to 
Adam, but he did not obey. 


[GGJ.n_75,24] Now one will say: ‘But where is the proof that this is so, and that 
the former teachers did not accomplish the same? For what has been said here is 
hidden to the human eye. It is an inner process about which no one besides Jesus 
can report while the outer process, the appearance of a great teacher, his life, his 
good teachings and also his death, happened many times. Now how can the tree 
of sins be really broken by Jesus, and over there they only broke through the roof 
of leaves? This can hardly be noticed from the outer result in the world, because 
sin is flourishing in the present time as never before, and mankind cannot 
recognize the signs, except the outer ones.’ 


[GGJ.n_75,25] Yes, this seems to be so at first sight but when we look closer, it 
does not. 


[GGJ.ii_ 75,26] All those who will go the inner way will soon realize what it is 
truly like. The outer appearance means nothing at all, for it is a hollow note. The 
one who does not want to go the inner way cannot be convinced or given an 
image of that way, just as little as it is impossible to give a blind person a notion 
of colors. Here the result decides. The way is there. Walk on it, and then make 
your conclusion. 


[GGJ.n_75,27] No one can come to the Father without Me, and without faith in 
Jesus no sage has ever felt the almighty Being of God as the very first Source of all 
love who can make Himself personal. Only in Jesus, the impersonal becomes 
personal, and the union of these two in the human form makes it possible for the 
creature to draw near to the Creator, the rising of matter in the spirit, the leading 
back of the sequence of sins that were committed upwards beyond the wall that 
separates matter and spirit, as points that otherwise cannot touch each other - 
and the bridge is the life of Jesus. 


[GGJ.n_75,28] Now the question arises: before the death of the Son of man, how 
far actually could the deceased souls go? 


[GGJ.n_75,29] They could of course come to insight and also to inner bliss, this 
according to how they followed the teaching of the many earlier teachers, but they 
could of course not reach the point of viewing the personified deity. 


[GGJ.n_75,30] This happened in history for the first time when the body of 
Jesus was lying in the grave. There lay the purely earthly body, while the soul with 
the indwelling Spirit of God passed over and there showed Himself to all as the 
One who He is and was. 


[GGJ.n_75,3i] This can only be mentioned here. However, later will also be 
revealed what exactly happened. 


[GGJ.n_75,32] With this manifestation in the spirit world, began the building 
and populating of the New Jerusalem as the city of God and the inhabitants, and 
it will continue to exist forever. 


Chapter 76 


JESUS’ RESURRECTION, APPEARANCE TO HIS DISCIPLES AND 
ASCENSION 

 

ON the third day of Passover the deity returned and called on the Son of Man’s 
body that entirely dissolved itself at once and was now added as garment to the 
soul. This event was seen by the Roman guards as a brilliant light that filled the 
cavity of the grave, and this frightened them so much that they immediately ran 
away from it to announce that I was resurrected. The stone was rolled away from 
the opening so that everyone could look now into the crypt. 


[GGJ.n_76,2] The soldiers hurried to Pilate who was greatly surprised, and with 
a certain delight he reported it to the High Council. A few members of the High 
Council went immediately to the place and saw that the spot was empty, and, 
knowing the discontentment of the people, they anxiously tried to cover up the 
case, gave money to the soldiers and wanted them to say that the disciples stole 
the corpse while they were asleep. At the same time they assured them impunity 
with Pilate who had to punish with death such violation of sleeping while they 
were on post. 


[GGJ.ii_ 76,3] But Pilate did not want to grant this impunity, and said, when a 
higher priest tried to negotiate with him: “Either the soldiers slept, and then they 
are doubly guilty because they slept and lied to me, or they did not sleep, and in 
that case I do not want by a lie to expose myself to the anger of the One who is 
resurrected.” 


[GGJ.n_76,4] Nothing could be achieved with him, and therefore the priests 
gave much money to the soldiers so that they could flee to far away regions, which 
they also did. Then the story about the theft of the corpse went around and is still 
believed today. 


[GGJ.n_76,5] It is known from the gospels that I appeared to many after the 
resurrection. This did not only happen in the indicated places but wherever I had 
been teaching, to proof My followers that the teaching that I gave to them was 
right. 


[GGJ.n_76,6] I was not the only One who became visible but also many of those 
who had been called away before appeared to their relatives in clear dreams, and 
in one case even during daytime, to tell them about the New Jerusalem. These 
facts were later brought in connection with the moment of death, and this is the 
explanation for the rumor why many dead had risen and appeared to their 
relatives in their houses. 



[GGJ.ii_ 76,7] That which is still important from the time till I was taken away 
from the Mount of Olives will now be very briefly mentioned. 


[GG.J.ii_ 76,8] The first to see Me was Mary Magdalene. This happened exactly as 
John described it. 


[GGJ.n_76,9] Very early [GGJ.n_in the morning ] - even before the High 
Council was informed - Mary went to the grave with 6 other women to pray there 
and to once more pour out fragrant ointments over the body to protect it against 
decomposition. But they saw that the grave was empty and they hurried back to 
tell the disciples. 


[GGJ.n_76,io] When they had calmed down and they all returned to inform the 
others who did not yet know that something had happened, Mary stayed behind 
alone. 


[GGJ.ii_76,ii] It has already been said why I turned her down with the words: 
‘Do not touch Me’ - her still impure love for Me could have destroyed her if she 
had touched My Being that was now purely spiritual. 


[GGJ.n_76,i2] John reports further that I appeared to the disciples when they 
were together behind closed doors. This happened in the following manner: after 
the Pharisees had spread their false reports, soon a great agitation arose among 
the people in Jerusalem. Most of them did not believe the temple servants 
because contrary to this there was the clear conviction that this was something 
unheard of: Roman soldiers so greatly neglected a place they had to guard that a 
grave could be opened and emptied. So all kinds of remarks about the deep sleep 
of the soldiers was soon spread around and mocked this incredible explanation, 
comparing the much deeper sleep of the temple with that of the soldiers. The 
priests became very angry about that and tried, if possible, to capture the 
disciples and to kill also them because they refuted their lies by telling the full 
facts. 


[GGJ.n_76,i3] The disciples came together to deliberate what they would do. 
This happened with the innkeeper in the inn on the Mount of Olives that is 
sufficiently known. 


[GGJ.n_76,i4] However, Thomas was not present at this first meeting since he 
was in Jerusalem to find out about the situation there. 


[GGJ.ii_ 76,15] In the midst of this gathering, where also Lazarus was present, I 
came in and greeted those who were present, and after their first amazement they 
were overwhelmed by joy and crowded around Me. I taught them once more that 
evening about the purpose of My death as well as their task as teacher which they 
received now, and also that they did not have to be afraid because, with a firm 
trust in Me and love for Me, they were safe for all persecutions. So I proved to 
them the immortality in My Kingdom by My personal appearance, and they all 
were now completely filled with faith and zeal of heart. 


[GGJ.n_76,i6] Then I left them after advising them to gather here again after 8 
days and that everyone should put order in his house. 


[GGJ.n_76,i7] Then after 8 days the described scene happened with Thomas, 
also reported by John. 


[GGJ.n_76,i8] In that time after Passover I appeared to all whom I directly had 
contact with to give them the proof of My words and to strengthen their mind for 
the spreading of the teaching. No one was excluded from that. Those who were 
embittered at the Jews by My death were calmed down, and those who had 
become wavering were strengthened. 


[GGJ.n_76,i9] But it is unnecessary to again describe all those events because 
besides that, nothing happened which everyone cannot imagine himself. These 
deeds were only a crowning of their faith, but thereby an expansion of My 
teaching did not take place. 


[GGJ.n_76,2o] For instance the story of the 2 disciples of Emmaus gives a 300 
rather accurate image of all those events that occurred in a similar manner. This 
is also the reason why it was passed on. 


[GGJ.n_76,2i] However, the manifestation at the Lake of Galilee was intended to 
lift up and to strengthen Peter who unspeakably suffered under the awareness 
that he had denied Me. This is why he was put to the test by which he could 
transform his faith into actions. When the disciples were in the ship, recognizing 
Me and told Peter about it, he threw himself immediately into the sea to shorten 
the way to Me. This faith purified him of the still adhering impurities, because 
everyone who has recognized Me should seek the shortest way to Me through the 
surging sea. 





 


 

[GGJ.ii_76,22] So his triple denial also corresponds with the question that was 
asked 3 times: ‘Do you love Me?’ 


[GGJ.n_76,23] In this event lies a great corresponding meaning which everyone 
who read this work with his heart and not only with his reason can solve for 
himself. Let therefore everyone examine himself and see whether he can solve 
this correspondence. 


[GGJ.ii_ 76,24] The disciples went soon to work to put things in order at home. I 
instructed them to gather again at a certain time with the innkeeper, and this also 
happened. This was the 40th day after the Passover, similar with the 40 days in 
the desert which they all needed to prepare themselves. 


[GGJ.n_76,25] All who were close to Me came, and again I entered into their 
midst and led them to the top of the Mount of Olives from where one has a 
panoramic view. There I gathered the apostles around Me. The other disciples 
stood in a big circle around us. Once more I admonished them all to firmly hold 
on to Me and My teaching. I also instructed My disciples to go everywhere and to 
preach the Gospel in My name. After that I said farewell to them and explained to 
them that they would no longer see Me physically but would remain in contact 
with Me spiritually. 


[GGJ.n_76,26] Then I blessed them, and soon I disappeared from their midst. 


Chapter 77 
Epilogue 


[GGJ.n_77,i] With this, everything has been reviewed and faithfully written 
down what concerns My earthly life and what has become visible on Earth. 


[GGJ.n_77,2] However, a big part is still missing here, namely what happened in 
the spiritual world. To understand this, the world is still far too immature, and 
also the few who believe in My direct Word can still not absorb it. But the time 
will come, and it is not too far away, when people will return to a more purely 
spiritual feeling. Then the time will have come that also this will be revealed, and 
this will also happen. 


[GGJ.ii_ 77,3] Let therefore everyone be satisfied with what is offered and follow 
My teaching so that this time may soon come very near, because the nations shall 
come closer to each other and the Earth shall become a place of peace. Amen. 


The End 
