Chapter 01
The Gospel of Nature and the Mission of Man on Earth (January 22, 1872)
01] My dear son, you have written a long letter to your spiritual sister (she is a learned Catholic theological 
writer) from the standpoint of your knowledge, to which she as a woman cannot answer you. And it was 
precisely in this predicament between "not being able" and "nevertheless caring" that she turned to My
scribe, asking him to ask Me for guidance and advice, so that it would happen to you appropriately.
02] Well then, you say in your letter that you want an answer and an evaluation from a Master, so I take it 
upon Myself to enter into a theological dispute with you so that you may recognize your Master who, like all 
living beings of all creation, is able to answer your questions.
03] But before I go over to the actual content of your letter, I must first help you to clear up your doubts 
whether this word that I am giving you here were not directly from me, but either only a human work or a 
word dictated under the influence of a higher spirit.
04] Though you yourself confess in your own letter that not everything you write has grown on your own 
ground; even the light-filled and comprehensively newly revealed Great Gospel of John, which you have just 
read, you do not accept this "concoction" entirely as mine, you believe it to be for apprentices, not for those 
deeply initiated in the doctrine, as you call it. It is only too sweet, at most for children, laymen and immature 
people, but not for men! Here you are greatly mistaken! and to correct this error in you and to establish the 
truth that everything that you have just now read is only from me and from no one else, this shall be My first, 
whereupon the approach to your long letter will follow, to also shine for you as the morning sun, which shall
guide you through the material life to the spiritual heaven. 
05] Behold, My Son, in you lives a spirit which elevates your soul above the animal soul ,which elevates 
you as a free man, while the animal is led towards its destiny by the bonds of instinct.
06] This Spirit now, a spark from me, which I breathed into the first man after Moses and through which I 
created man, apart from his outward appearance, according to My image - it is this Spirit who is the mediator 
between me, My spirit kingdom and man.
07] By means of this spirit I speak to man in his heart, I admonish, advise and comfort him as something 
that cannot be denounced despite some aversion; which is why you call it "conscience" because it is 
something certain. 
08] Through this voice I announced My will to the prophets in the Old Testament, and it is through this very 
voice that I now direct and guide mankind to its nearest goal, to sorting; for the time has come when the 
wheat will soon be cleansed of the chaff, as indicated by the great political, secular and spiritual upheavals 
that are manifesting on your whole earth.
09] For this purpose of My direct communication a man of simple character who had become accustomed 
more than many to listening to his inner voice also served me, who learned to distinguish the fantasy images
2
of his brain from My voice of love and so was able to put on paper everything that is intended, not only for 
the small circle of readers who now know these writings, but for the whole of humanity as the future system 
of religion based solely on My own statements during My earthly transformation, which is to lead the 
cultural affairs and the whole teaching system back to that as I once gave to My apostles, simple men of the 
people; because you can well imagine that I did not descend to your earth in vain and gave you the example 
of greatest humiliation and sacrifice. This communication to men and women devoted to Me has always been 
repeated at intervals after My returning home; there have always been many such clairvoyants; the messages 
left by them are, of course, always appropriate to the time and understanding of the people living with them, 
so that their language differed in different centuries. Are the books, which are especially intended for 
children, written in a different style than those which, perhaps dealing with the same subject, are written for 
adult men?
10] If the people were in their infancy, they received children’s tales and stories behind which the true 
wisdom was concealed, and if the people were in manhood, they received proclamations appropriate to a 
brighter spirit. But always it was one and the same source, always it was My direct communication, which 
was slowly affecting men, preparing them from one level to the other. In the present time, after the 
aforementioned scribe has been recalled by me, I have again chosen another one for Myself, who possesses 
the qualities to benefit me and mankind through these communications. Through this you receive here these 
lines, which may well bring your good qualities and your zealous search for light to bear, not only 
proclaiming to you My will, but at the same time also containing the great stream of learning, which you 
deduce from your (theological and philosophical) studies, to restrain yourself in a certain limited streambed 
and thus through a regulated course of your life flow slowly back to the sea of eternal light and eternal 
happiness and bliss.
11] behold, you have quoted many passages from the Old and New Testaments to justify your spiritual 
direction and your personal outlook, so also I will begin with a saying from My earthly transformation, 
which fits best here in particular, and the most important and first is: "If you do not become like these 
(namely the children), you will never enter the kingdom of heaven!
12] Behold, this saying is the first one which I recommend to you for your consideration; become a child 
and leave the man's food, abide by the simplest! And don't look far away for what is so close to you.
13] Behold, you have quoted the Trinity, the story of creation, the personality of Christ, His birth, and many 
others from the ancient Fathers of the Church; you have quoted these explanations, which were often very 
perceptive, as evidence of the only theme, namely the divinity of Christ, the existence of God, His Spirit 
realm and many more. When you read these explanations in the ancient books of the Church Fathers, they 
seemed very witty, very true, and why? Because they complied with the laws of your mind. But I have to tell 
you that all these old writers and elucidators of My Word, both of the Old and the New Testament, were only 
woodworms, as it were, who penetrated through the rough and material shell of the Tree of Life, having 
buried themselves inside it, Because they suspected something better, something finer still lies behind and 
underneath this shell, and they too, like the woodworms, the further they penetrate into it, the more 
spiritualized they become themselves through the ever finer nourishment. But they fared like the woodworms 
of a tree: They could not get too high into the tree because the food no longer appealed to them, and so all 
research and explanations in general were always only from the same sphere, the doubts of a searching soul 
did not completely brighten up and the seekers only drifted around in circles, around a center that everyone 
suspected, but no one was able to reach it.
3
14] but since I start from completely different views and see further than all the interpreters of the Bible, I 
will advise you to read My own book, namely the book of My visible and invisible nature, instead of opening 
again a book of a prophet or an old church father, there I will show you the same, what you wanted to prove 
by Bible explanations where you can always find it new and always, that I, God, Love, My Son is Wisdom 
and the Holy Spirit is the union of both for the execution of creation.
15] See, My child, I created the whole universe with all its living beings because I, as love itself, wanted to 
be loved by others; for love without object is an impossibility. So, My love, this unlimited divine love that 
cannot be grasped by you creatures, created beings and worlds, material and spiritual great realms, where 
intelligent beings, rejoicing in the creations, learn to love the Creator and thus in this way should return My
love to Me.
16] This divine unlimited love also had to have a purpose, a why, an "up to here and no further", and this 
limiting factor was wisdom. Thus love paired with wisdom were the factors that matured the ideas for 
creation, and the spirit of preservation crowned the work with the stamp of infinity, because what a God 
created must also be divine, and what an infinite being called into being will also be infinite.
17] Thus the great Trinity was founded, which always expresses itself in the material-visible by three things 
as well, as length, width and thickness - or form, content and density, or as in the case of man spirit, soul and 
body, and in every created thing an outer, inner and innermost.
18] This Trinity pays homage to everything, all products of the earth, both in and out of it.
19] Love, then, was the one who created everything, kept everything and perfected everything; without this 
love no sun was shining, without love there would be no warmth, no life. It is the great driving force that 
everything strives to achieve its goals. See My whole creation, where you only want to look at a product, 
may you recognize from its perfection in the smallest as well as in the greatest that the Creator, always 
remaining constant, embraces everything with equally loving arms. 
20] Fly up into those spaces where millions of years are not enough to send you a ray of light from there, or 
descend to the smallest atoms in the infinite ether and you will find the same loving Creator.
21] Behold, your small earth orbits around the sun, this one with all its planets and comets orbits around 
another, larger, in union with other solar systems; this central sun with its entourage again around a larger, 
and so on until the whole world system is filled, ordered, as it is partially revealed to you in the night sky.
22] Just as this big starry firmament constitutes only one system for itself, so there are still millions of them, 
of which you know some under the name nebulae. If you now follow these worlds of stars and continue to 
discover new ones, you will in the end come upon another realm, where all these former entities have their 
spiritual counterparts, and where little by little the whole of creation, always spiritualizing, will finally merge 
into this realm to create a new cycle of creations, but only spiritually.
23] Well, in that spirit kingdom where everything finds itself in its highest potency, there is also My seat; 
from there I reign, from there I sent My Son, the wisdom, down to this small grain of sand, so that He may 
serve all spirits and beings as an example of what love can do when it is a high, great purpose. Ignoring all 
other suns and worlds, where men live in a world full of miracles, full of greatness, spirit and bodily powers 
never imagined by you, My own divinity had to condescend to the greatest humiliation and just to carry out 
this humiliation on a star which is smaller than a grain of sand in the sea and whose inhabitants have within 
4
them the greatest spirit in physical expansion, just as with you, where the nerve is able to run out into the 
smallest tips, the greatest feelings, be it the pleasure or the pain.
24] I once descended on this dark earth (as divine wisdom, as a teacher), deprived Myself of all that is 
divine, began as an minor child in the most meager position and decided this way of life by the most 
dishonorable death on the cross. And all this out of love, in order to show My spirits what a spiritual being 
must do, so it shall once be like me.
25] I came to your earth to proclaim, as you yourself say, the dawn of a new dawning day, the Day of Love, 
the Day of Peace and Reconciliation, the Day of My Divine Spirit spark placed in you.
26] Understand this self-sacrificing love without any ulterior motives! Consider it, so that your heart too 
may be widened, may it spread over all mankind, may it only let you see stray children in your fellow men, 
may this love warm you up and be the basis for all your actions, then you will be reborn again, you will again 
be a child who, trusting in his Father, accepts from Him all that may come, because he knows that the Father 
does not punish, does not take revenge, but only forgives and forgets. 
27] Consider Me as an eternally loving God, as a gentle and humble Jesus and follow My footsteps and you 
will discover the voice of this love everywhere in material nature; it will always tell you the same thing in the 
warm ray of sunlight, in the gentle whispering of a mild spring air and in the ray of light hitting your eye 
millions and millions of miles away from you: God is love!
28] On your walks, the birds in the air and the flowers of the earth will shout out to you:" Become yourself -
what we are, the creatures who fulfill their purpose perfectly!" When this love once pervades your breast, 
when you have understood the great word of My love for you, then spread your arms out towards the whole 
world - everything will seem rosier, more peaceful to you, you will discover harmonies where previously you 
hardly perceived individual notes, newborn you will see Me and your fellow human beings in a completely 
different light; because the book of My creation has become legible, comprehensible to you, you will only 
then experience that this image of love you already carry in your own breast, but could not understand it, did 
not know how to interpret it. Then you will probably leave your church fathers alone, you will always 
remember their aspirations with honor; but they will not be able to suppress My Book of Life!
29] And why did I create all nature? Why did I endow them with so many charms? It is precisely so that 
through it my children learn to respect me, the giver, first as creator and then to love me as father. See how a 
dewdrop on a leaflet reflects the whole world surrounding it, so your inner being should reflect the whole 
harmony of My creation through the heavenly peace which is then in it, and then you will feel what it means: 
"Everything is pure to the pure".
30] So, equipped with this great love for your fellow human beings, take care of the souls of your people 
entrusted to you, in this sense become "pastor", in this sense, if you offer your sacrifice of the Mass to Me, 
the "Dominus nobiscum" (the Lord be with us) - and "pax nobiscum" (peace be upon us) will become a true 
blessing for your community, if you have also taught them to develop the spiritual from the material, the 
spiritual from the practical life, and thus to improve themselves.
31] So you are in the right place as a priest, as a worker in My Vineyard, and I will reward you with the 
same measure and weight, just as all those whom you will lead to Me, that is to say, they will all find the 
Father, the loving Jesus, as a Savior who will take away their burden and heal their wounds.
5
32] So take My World at hand as the great gospel, see in it how through My Love everything is wisely 
arranged, how there everything is destined to show man as the ultimate goal of all creations on every earthly, 
solar or comet body in the smallest as well as in the greatest My Love, My Wisdom and My Creative Spirit, 
who created all these miracles in order to awaken among the intelligent thinking beings the same impulse
that constitutes His only self in the Creator and Lord of all creatures.
33] Out of love I created these worlds, so that through the understanding of what has been created, this love 
returns to me again. Look, the great tree of life, like the tree visible to you on your earth, has its roots in the 
material; there, as with any other tree, the root seeks to extract from the surrounding soil what is necessary to 
build its own individuality. This absorbed energy conducts the soul of the tree upwards, from darkness to 
light, from cold to warmth, from the coarse to finer, lighter earth air. The more these juices rise higher, are 
processed in the bark, in the cell tissue, the more they leave what’s solid behind, the more they push forward
the finer, the more the influence of the earth recedes and the more powerful the influence of light, air and 
heat asserts itself; the products of the process become ever finer, ever lighter, everything pushes forward to 
the closer, more direct influence of the substances from My Heavens, the wood of the trunk is already 
softening in the branches, the preparations for the development of the leaf, the blossom and the final goal: the 
fruit, are being accelerated, everything emerges one from the other, all the way to the fruit, it reaches its 
destination, it then has to begin a similar cycle for other purposes and under different forms by means of 
metabolism in order to reach another, more spiritual level.
34] And just as the whole plant kingdom goes this way, so also the human soul in its own kind goes the 
same way, should it ever want to come to me.
35] It too is to absorb the spiritual from ordinary life (matter), to refine and spiritualize it, to always ascend 
upwards to blossom, to fruit; so that she too, her time of trial life over, can easily under other circumstances
begin the further and greater journey in the hereafter.
36] If you wanted to contemplate My nature with spiritual eyes, how many hints and spiritual 
correspondences you would see there, to what I actually have destined the material world, and to what I have 
destined you human beings. Everything that you see physically in nature is spiritually expressed in the life
course of humanity, of peoples and of the individuals.
37] In nature you see the struggle for light, for freedom, for perfection, you see incidentally emergence and 
decay, eternal metabolism, eternal struggle, always a spiritual result of material destruction. Humanity since 
its beginning has followed the same path as the sap of a tree from night to light, and so became its cultural 
movement, so was the Spirit-stage-Cycle that made them mature, to prepare and make necessary My descent. 
Thus mankind moves forward between origin and decay, between struggle, defeat and victory, towards the 
goal to which I have created them.
38] Thus the nations, each according to their spiritual maturity, so the individual human being, traversing 
between joys and sufferings, wrong and right views, between delusion and truth. So even My own short way 
of life on earth was; between contempt, struggle and suffering, between revenge, hate and persecution, 
always the banner of spiritual freedom and the divine dignity of man - lifting high above all the calamities of 
earthly life, I sealed My mission with My glorious resurrection! I cried on the cross to men and nations, "It' is 
finished!" which had the value and meaning only for me, in that I had to leave the accomplishment to them 
for their part for the future; namely, supporting them in their striving to do so.
6
39] And as I had to go through all these bitter battles during My years of apprenticeship and wore My cross 
willingly, so also now men, each one for themselves and all of them together, must also be led to victory and 
glorious resurrection through battles and suffering.
40] Consider the current world events, the confusion of opinions in religious terms, everything is pressing 
for purification, for certainty, everything wants from night to light! So you also learn to read in My great 
book, learn to recognize that everywhere, in the material and spiritual realm, there is only one law and one
goal which pushes forward all that has been created; it is the goal, everything that one does, sees, speaks and 
experiences, to gain a spiritual value, to refer everything to me; because only from me everything came and 
to me everything wants to return!
41] You have built prayer houses for your God, have introduced there a ceremonial cult in what way this 
God should be worshiped; learn now to recognize from My words to you that I am not in those prayer 
houses, not in those ceremonies, if you do not bring me there in your hearts.
42] My house of prayer is the whole creation which, without wanting to, always calls out to you:" God is 
love! So as soon as man has learned the language of My nature, he will also appear in a house specially built 
for praying with more devotion and not for the sake of habit; even the priest celebrating mass will perform 
his own function as a messenger more devoutly when he remembers the Creator, who lavishes a thousand 
graces on him with every breath. The priest will understand only then what responsibility he has to bring his 
subordinates forward spiritually; he will, knowing m My y love in its entirety, often look up to me with 
shame when his hopes are not realized in the most beautiful and sincere soul desire to want the best! Alone 
he knows that what I said as a man in the garden of Gethsemane, must also apply to him. He too must cry 
out: “Not mine, but thy will be done, O Lord."
43] The renunciation which lies in these words will give him back his confidence in me and strengthen his 
consciousness; for he knows: the love which manifests itself in all nature and brings only blessings under 
destruction and annihilation, under misery and misfortune; this love cannot waver, cannot fail!
44] And when he raises his gaze to the starry sky so often in the evening after laborious work, when he sees 
these thousands and thousands of flames of love floating in the great ether like light drops of oil on the water, 
when this immense book of My great creation shows itself, then when he, crushed by this greatness, is forced 
to shout: Lord! What am I that you remember me! Then I lower the beam of silence into his heart by 
answering him: “You are and shall become, ‘My child’, child of this great Creator! Therefore open your 
heart, expand it so that the thought of My creation, the thought of My infinite love finds its place there! You 
too spread out your arms, embrace spiritually everything created - everything is a product of My love, 
everything has at least one spark of myself in it! Honor My creation, and you thus honor Me - and yourself!"!
45] Let this all-embracing love enter into your heart, let this great thought of the universal take a seat in your 
heart, and you will see clearly all that lies veiled in clear language, in the parable or in veiled correspondence 
in the Old and New Testaments, to see standing with eternally indelible letters in all that is created and even 
in your own self, and you will be able to read again and recognize what all of these many words mean, 
namely: “God is love”, out of love he created you and through love he wants to lead you back to himself. 
46] Consider and become a child, My child! This is your task which I have given you to solve as a trial on 
this earth! Amen!
7
Chapter 02 
Essence of Magnetism (October 22, 1870)
01] This question was already raised today at noon, and since the discussion of this subject, that is to say
under My hands, I could cast some light on your ideas, partly also on the actual object, which is to serve for 
your benefit and teaching, so I will say a few words to you about it.
02] Already in an earlier dictation (See "Earth and Moon", Part 2 "The Moon", Chapter, The Magnetic 
Fluid) I told you what actually magnetism is, namely - My Will. Magnetism alone is a force that can also be 
found in the metals and stones and which is also manifested in the animals and finally in the human 
organism.
03] It is only a question of what exactly is this magnetism in minerals and iron. Besides, what's the one in 
the animals? And what is the difference in all of these compared to magnetism, which is also present in the 
human body and finally in the soul of man himself?
04] Well, in order to discuss all of this, we must first begin with the first concept of this power as it becomes 
apparent to you in the mineral kingdom.
05] As far as you know, the magnetic force is an attracting one that attracts only the same as the magnetized 
iron only attracts iron; there are also other things that exert magnetic forces, but don’t just attract iron, but 
also attract other things, as you have often seen in a playful way, for example that sealing varnish, a little bit 
rubbed, also attracted pieces of paper; amber as well as all kinds of resin have this property.
06] Well, this characteristic of attraction, which you see in the small iron painted with the magnet stone or 
iron and with the magnetic needle, which points a constant direction to the north, until where it arrives at a 
certain point, rather than to the north, indicates the point of its striving as in the earth itself. This suggestion 
alone proves to you that this force, which is called mineral magnetism, has its seat in the earth; and precisely 
because it is merely an attractive and not a repulsive one, it is actually the only element as a force of 
attraction which connects the whole earth and its atmosphere to a whole.
07] This power is, as I once said, only My will; only the material manifestation of magnetism is no longer to 
be seen as My direct will, but only as one of its manifold ideas.
08] The magnetic force that the magnetic needle draws to the north is a witness of the great current that 
flows through everything and forces everything to work together; in this lies hidden the great purpose, where 
each individual as part of the whole only has to follow one course; you call it the train of gravity, and I call it 
the fully weighted "train of love".
09] What happens on the whole earth without consciousness, where everything must carry out its great 
purpose firmly connected to each other, this is no longer so fixed in the animal kingdom, where it occurs 
more freely and is only necessary for the individual, one or the other animal is necessary for its own 
development; it is there that the first silent and strict power loosened and refined with regard to the effect of 
one to the other.
10] However, as the animals gradually move upwards and refine their magnetic peculiarities, they finally 
reach the human being as the last stage, who also possesses a magnetically attractive force, but which is more 
widespread and far-reaching than that of the animals and the mineral kingdom.
8
11] Man also has a "magnetic fluid" emanating from his body, but besides that man also has a higher 
inheritance derived from his soul that actually comes from me, with which, if he knew how to use it, could 
immediately "create" and rule like me!
12] His bodily fluid or the power flowing out of his body without a will, but which he can drive even more 
out of his body through his will and direct to where he wants to go - this power is also the same force that 
holds everything firmly together on earth, also forms his body into a whole, rolls in his veins and even 
constitutes his outermost spiritual sphere: He can use this power or force as a free being as he wants, either 
for good or for evil.
13] Now much of the properties of this general natural force has already been discovered in this time, and I 
let some of them be granted that they could appear with this force for the benefit of sick mankind in a healing 
way.
14] However, above this power and all the lower levels mentioned earlier there is still a higher one, and this 
is the power that comes directly from the spirit, from myself, and that is as far different from the ordinary 
magnetic action as apparent spirit and matter.
15] This power as outflow of My spirit is also the bond that holds together everything that is spiritually or 
like me, but with the difference that while nature has joined together its various elements with compulsion, in 
man and his spiritual union with other higher beings and Myself only a tender bond, the bond of love, has 
been drawn around everything, which, instead of working through strict laws, is to work only through love.
16] So if someone lets someone else, brother or sister, feel his natural magnetic current, then only the 
psychic-body affects the corresponding equivalent in the other body, it exposes the nerves of the magnetized 
person, relieves the load of the body and loosens its ties; therefore, even the magnetized person in light sleep 
can see and speak things that the magnetizing person may not even know!
17] But as soon as spiritual magnetism occurs, which is My will, My power and My "blessing", it is possible 
that not only the magnetized, but also the magnetizing person, both enjoy the same bliss; for through this 
spiritual bond of love, which wraps itself around their hearts in this union, they have uncovered the same
bliss that you once experienced, the heavy shroud will fall off, and you will enjoy it all the time. 
 18] If you now comprehend the great difference between the various magnetizing beings, you will 
understand the difference where on the one hand only raw, unrefined forces exert their influence and where 
pure heavenly air blows on the other hand, where the compulsion of the "must" of one magnetizer does not 
compel the others to follow his will, but where both will unite and weakly taste the great pleasure, which will 
one day await every mature one in My kingdom.
19] The former magnetism is an issue of your life capital, the second one is an income of your heavenly 
inheritance!
20] Therefore, if you ever reach out your hand to magnetize, do not, therefore, merely let the physicalmental power flow out of you, but spiritualize and purify it through the thought of me, My words, My love! 
And you, instead of only increasing others, will first be raised up yourself, then communicate this feeling to 
the other, empathize with him, and thus have equal pleasures of the bliss that is once to be expected.
21] I said in the beginning: magnetism is the bond that binds everything together, connecting everything and 
thus making up the fabric of the apparently-material; likewise spiritual magnetism is the eternal bond that is 
9
to connect Me with My spirits and with My children forever, so that we may one day all of us, as one, be 
huddled together by love as your compact earth and all other earthly bodies are now through compulsion.
22] This magnetic train of love drew you to Me - and Me to you; let it always rule, and you will not be 
lacking in the exquisite pleasures of a blessedness that is now unsuspected, and I will also more and more 
have the joy of drawing you closer and closer to Me, until the everlasting train has brought you completely to 
My Father's heart, as I would like to, and for which I will grant you all the means to achieve this!. Amen.
Chapter 03
Essence of Electricity (October 23, 1870)
01] After I have given you yesterday evening a brief explanation of magnetism as I understand it and also 
want you to understand it in the same sense, worthy of My children, so today I want to add another to 
yesterday's enlightenment, namely about electricity, a force from which you and your so-called scholars 
know the effects in part, but do not know what it actually is, and how I would like you to understand it.
02] Now, to get to the bottom of this force too, we must start from the first idea of a creation in general, then 
confirm the necessary continuance of a driving force; then we must pursue this force in its individual effects 
and, at the end, lead it back to that from where it emanated as an expressive force and as spiritual potency 
and now constitutes one of My main qualities as God and Creator.
03] See now then, little children, to whom I have already told so much about My building of creation (in the 
volume "Life Secrets", especially in the works about creation revealed by J. Lorber) - but since this 
construction is infinite in its extension, it can only partially be understood by you finite ones and some things 
can only be suspected, from which it follows that as much as I would also initiate you into the secrets of My
creation, after millions of years you could only partially comprehend the miracles of My works.
04] But as a father, as I want to be and am, is not to have any secrets from his children, so that the more the 
children are forced to love and respect him, I will from time to time let you take a look at this workshop of 
My infinite power, so that you may more and more recognize who he is, who distributes so many graces to 
you and what it means to be taught by God, when some people on your earth wonder what he is, when he can 
boast of being the disciple of this or that great scholar or artist! 
05] All the more must you imagine yourselves when you consider that I, the Lord of all created things, have 
lowered myself in My fatherly love to teach you as disciples!
06] But since pride is not the first principle in My school, but only humility is set up as such, I therefore 
want to tell you some more things about My great creation and hope that you will not be proud of what you 
have learned, but only become ever more humble.
07] So we return to our electricity. So listen:
08] When in infinite space My first ideas began to materialize and worlds were created on worlds, there was 
only the law of attraction and repulsion that forced them to turn around their axis and their central suns.
09] At that time there were only two forces that did all this, the attractive and the repulsive.
10
10] One wanted to take possession of everything, the other wanted to drive everything out into infinity. 
Now, from the conflict of these two forces, the only engine of everything that is created and should exist, the 
rotating movement arose; and so by these forces the whole universe was populated with worlds, their 
formation was initiated by these forces, and still now these two forces are the main carriers of all life and 
everything created and will remain so as long as I am the one who in reality directs everything and leads to 
the general ultimate goal!
11] The first of these powers, as I already said in yesterday's dictation, is love.
12] Love wants to seize everything and not be separated from it at any price, wants to have everything with 
it; the consequence of this would be a finite earthquake, a death, out of love - thus no life! 
13] So in order to put this mighty instinct of My ego into its just limits, wisdom was added, which did not 
hinder the attraction of love, but only allows it to a certain degree and again requires its removal and release.
14] Well, by this attracting and letting go the first thing that is necessary in My creation was created: the 
movement! But what is movement? Movement is - life!
15] So it was the active life that was the product of two forces which always produced the benevolent effect 
in conflict with each other, of creation, action and rebuilding, of coming and going, and which established 
this as the law of eternal renewal and perpetuity (As in the watch the driving spring and inhibition, as two 
opposing forces, the foundation of all order - the timepieces
16] Struggle is life, and rest is death!
17] Well, where there is struggle, there is friction; where friction, there is an anger of the individual parts 
which do not want to be disturbed in their rest, where there is anger heat awakens, where there is heat in its 
highest vibration, that’s where the light develops! (See "The Fly", chapter 9, Cause and Nature of Light).
18] Now behold! From the simple first laws of attraction and repulsion, the light that is necessary for life 
develops, because without light there is no life. But since light is only the product of warmth, where there is 
life - also heat! where there is no movement, no warmth, but cold or death, that is standing still; everything 
remains in this state as it is, has no urge, neither to change nor to perfect nor to dissolve.
19] So here we have already found out two other main characteristics from the first two primitive forces, 
namely from repulsion and attraction - light and warmth!
20] All that was created therefore emerged from the light and the warmth. Love builds, which receives 
wisdom. Love is synonymous with magnetism - wisdom with electricity.
21] Just as My thoughts fly through infinity with lightning speed, so electricity flows out into the far 
distance, connecting the same with the same, creating harmony through the stimulation of the "slumbering
forces" or the "bound spirits" in the universe.
22] Electricity is the carrier of life; in its positive form, (always meant in the sense of' promote' = support, 
encourage, accelerate, speed up) it promotes the preservation of what has been created, and in its negative 
value it causes destruction (dissolution) and thus stimulates it to rebuild again!
23] Thus the whole construction of creation comes from two basic laws, from two main characteristics of 
myself: from magnetism and electricity or from love and wisdom. 
11
24] Yes, even I Myself, in order to be active and always have a stimulus for further education, allowed one 
of My greatest spirits to fall away from Me and confront Me as the principle of evil to promote development
until it reaches a certain period where material creation ceases, no more transgression is necessary and a 
spiritual era will have occurred for all worlds and all beings.
25] What (negative) electricity is in creation that is Satan in the spiritual world; he also has his task, which 
he must carry out, only with the difference that he thinks that his remaining in his spiritual state is eternal.
26] Here he is mistaken. He remains as long as My great basic principles are necessary for the worlds and 
everything created. When this period comes to an end, love - magnetism - and wisdom - electricity - will also 
take on a different form and direction; extremes will be taken away from one another (attraction and 
repulsion), and peaceful, harmonious, communal action will take the place of the former, where the existence 
of one is based on the destruction of the other.
27] Electricity as latent (bound) heat, that is to say as light, is sufficiently known from your physical 
experiments and also from its application in cases of illness, everywhere you manipulate with it, and yet you 
do not know what you are actually doing, because for you the noticeable results and facts (i. e. the 
phenomena) are merely something constant. But as far as spiritual activity and the spiritual reason behind 
these experiments are concerned, you do not recognize that because you have no eyes for spiritual activity, 
and because the rapid effect of electricity and light takes place in such short periods of time that they are too 
fast for a human mind to actually imagine them.
28] But if you were to see how wonderful phenomena and processes develop in every experiment with the 
galvanic battery, emerging from only two basic causes, you would have to perish with devotion before Me, 
the creator of all that exists, just as you see from the smallest atoms of light and heat the greatest and most 
important factors for the creation of millions of miles of great world bodies from exactly these very small 
products of vibration and attraction.
29] If you would see there how this mighty fluid, through its billions and trillions of tremors of the smallest 
atoms, spreads the most intense light and the greatest warmth in one second in the great creation, you can get
a small notion of it, if I as God wanted to make someone feel My love and wisdom in all its power, he would 
have to pass away in a moment, and even if his spiritual resists, his material would be dissolved to the 
smallest first atoms of creation! 
30] If you could see how the electric current in your blood in one moment causes the instantaneous change 
of all its components, transforming everything that has died into living things and eliminates the diseased -
the thought of thinking about it over time is not enough to understand what happens in a moment, for which 
you would need days to understand everything, how one has emerged from the other.
31] And should it not be so? where would be a creation and where would you receive it, if it were not for the
forces working, that would immediately execute My thoughts with incomprehensible speed through the wide 
space of creation, in order to maintain life and bring new life everywhere; into those spaces, where eons of 
light only express a short span of time of one second!
32] It is this very electricity, the main carrier of all that has been created, that penetrates everything as My
wisdom, driving everything to life and perfection. Electricity, as My Wisdom, dictates the material laws, but 
to the spiritual it only gives advice. Where the first it is necessary compulsion, with the second, it is only the 
most ardent wish.
12
33] Electricity increases the life where its current is directed.
34] Let yourselves also be electrified by My wisdom, which I make you understand as a Father, and by My
love, which wants to attract you! 
35] As a Creator, I once remained in the heavens as love, and as "Son" or wisdom I descended to the earth.
36] As love, the eternally binding means of harmonious spirits, I inspired My wisdom to give you laws and 
teachings based on love; electrify yourselves for it! let this stream fill you with spiritual love for me, let all 
your heart's fibers tremble and vibrate, so that there the warmth of love may develop and the light of faith in 
Me and My mission to you, as Son, penetrates your hearts ever more powerfully.
37] Thus electricity, as a great conductor of heat and light in creation, should also become the spiritual love 
and wisdom conductor in your hearts.
38] All spiritual states, all powerful emotions, all are expressed in nature, in life and - in the electric spark.
39] Dissolving, jumping over all obstacles, the electric spark rushes through the heavy clouds, spreading 
light and warmth, but also cold and destruction; it flickers through the elements, dissolving metals, stones 
and everything you previously considered insoluble in an instant; nothing resists it.
40] Likewise is My wisdom, My teaching. Where it penetrates, it dissolves all that is hard, brings forth 
warmth, light and life, enthusiasm for higher things, spirituality, and coldness for the worldly, destroys all 
old learned prejudices and builds new life on old ruins!
41] So electricity is the symbol and product of My wisdom, and magnetism is the image of My love!
42] let yourselves be led through the former to the second; and when the ray of light and warmth for Me
flashes through you as an electric spark, so adapt yourselves to My love; there this spark will warm you up, 
enlighten you, and show you quite clearly that as I could build an entire infinity full of worlds from two 
forces, there are also two spiritual forces for all kingdoms of heaven, but both find their resting point only in 
one, that is: in My love!
43] For love sent wisdom out into the distance to illuminate and warm all that was created; but it also 
demands that the ray emanating from it should not return with empty hands, and so it also goes with 
electricity: it flows out into the immense distance, dissolving, destroying, but also awakening and building 
up anew; everywhere it transforms darkness into light, cold into warmth and death into life.
44] So also My word, My teaching in you, shall transform all darkness into light, transform everything that
has died into living deeds so that you may one day be purified, cleansed, like a ray of light may arrive in My
heavens and see face to face who now, with His words, wants to inspire or electrify you to divine deeds! 
Amen.
Chapter 04
About the Adelsberg Grotto (June 7, 1870)
01] You would like to have a few lines about the spiritual meaning of what these formations, which the 
spirits living in the earth form by means of the dripping water, actually want to say.
13
02] My dear son! The language of the signs written in the grotto, where your brother was yesterday and 
which he is still inspired by today, has just made known to you one of the countless impressions - this 
language is the language of the spirits, expressed in images, who are busy creating and weaving within the 
earth for future life!
03] What the dripping water of stones and sand dissolves, they gather together and bind it together 
according to their intelligence, as the housewife decorates the apartment and sweeps and weaves there as 
well, to make her dwelling where she spends the most time as comfortable as possible.
04] Behold, such a housewife sets a table there, there a bed; she covers the table with a tablecloth, the bed 
with a blanket; here she takes care of a small flower, and there decorates a window with it. So too do the 
spirits, and if you could penetrate into the interior of the earth's crust, you would see things of such beauty, 
whereas what you saw yesterday in the grotto is only child's play; for in the interior of the earth, where 
different metals are bound between stone and sand and earth, even the stalactite formations are not always 
white, but colored, so that there you can see the whole fiery reds of iron, or green curtains of immense height
and all kinds of shapes.
05] What I have created in infinity, what men have imitated in My creations, the spirits then imitate that, 
only in other types and forms, but which however correspond more to My great basic ideas of creation than 
all the accumulated work of men that has been pieced together.
06] Every figure that the stalactite forms under the hands of My Earth Spirits has a spiritual meaning, is 
always a song of praise for Me and My creation.
07] There you see a veil that, lightly and delicately formed, corresponds to the quite work of a virgin spirit; 
he forms it with a tender hand, weaving in forms and shapes according to its intelligence, which together in 
the spirit language wants to say in a few words:
08] "Praise be to you! O Great God and Lord of hosts! And your tender love-weaving, as you lead us all 
under gentle guidance on the path of perfection! You work without us noticing, under a veil, and no matter 
how tender, we recognize and feel your mighty and loving hand at the same time!
09] Be praised! even in our weak forms, which you allow us to build only from water and dissolved rock 
according to your great laws; we want to make these dark vaults and cathedrals under the solid crust of the 
earth into spiritual domes, and if after your admission sometimes your children are allowed to enter these 
dark caves, which are only intended for us, that they too may delight themselves in their lights, may be 
pleased by our works under your guidance and in all the forms that we have put together here in different 
ways, like the expression of our spiritual language, may be able to recognize that you, the love yourself, even 
where there is no light, are eternally always the same and forever only the one indestructible love!"!
10] See, My Son, such thoughts should inspire people in these subterranean temples for Me, where I wrote 
the same words with great letters from My spirits, as they stand before you every night in the firmament in 
an even greater scripture – which resembles eternity - and these words are called:
11] "Wanderers, stand still, a spiritual breath of everlasting power awaits you here; you are standing in front 
of formations, formed by the hand of spirits before living beings inhabited this earthly globe, and you, now
the descendant of a long lost race, admire the love and patience of your creator, who wants to draw you to his 
loving heart, whether with great or even with the smallest products of his thoughts!”
14
12] But - o poor people, how you desecrate My temples of the highest devotion with profane entertainment!
13] I should probably proceed differently with you, if there were not always some among the visitors of such 
caves who go out with other impressions than they went in with; well, it is because of them that I let these 
feasts go so quietly, because I prefer a devout soul to thousands for whom all that is nothing.
14] Now you have an idea how you should look at My Works, so that you always draw the same lesson 
from it, which can be said in a few words:
15]"Love the Father! For there is nothing besides Him that is like Him!"
16] So much for today; now read it to your brothers and sisters so that they too will then join in the chorus 
of My spirits and like them, praise Me as eternal Father and Lord! Amen.
Chapter 05
Butterfly and Swallow (November 10, 1870) 
01] Your sister wishes to be enlightened about what actually, in the spiritual sense, the swallow and the 
butterfly are, or what spiritual primordial types lie hidden under these two images from My kingdom of 
creation?
02] Since I have put something spiritual in everything, certainly there is also something in these two 
creatures, as individual members of two species, there is also something about it which could serve as a 
sublime example in relation to you human beings; now then, I want to tell your sister that these two species
of animals pass through the same steps, one of all winged beetles and insects and the other of the birds that 
joyfully fly through the air.
03] In order to reach the right enlightenment, we first have to answer the question: What is the butterfly? 
Behold, My beloved child, the butterfly is one of these species of animals, which, like the flying insects, 
serves as a transitional stage - from the crawling worm or the caterpillar and the bird - a central link. And of 
this, the butterfly is again in particular the animal which in its body reveals its dependence on the earth 
elements and in its colorfully decorated wings the relationship with the specifics of light and sun.
04] His own metamorphosis (transformation) and that of the whole species - first as a worm and caterpillar 
absorbing the appropriate earth components and then as a butterfly spiritualizing them through the sunlight 
products, as the finest juices of the flowers, gives you, My dear Children, a very beautiful example of your 
own work and life, that I cannot fail to explain it to you in more detail, My Children. So listen:
05] The worm crawls in the dust, and the caterpillar feeds on the inner part of the tree and bush buds, both 
absorbing elements coming from the earth.
06] So it also goes with you humans.
07] From childhood on, you too are mostly given only worldly things through the now conventional 
education, and your childish hearts are filled with superficial sciences.
08] So laden with vain knowledge, you then approach the more mature age, as the caterpillar approaches the 
state where she pupates in hibernation and the better development into a quite different being.
15
09] And you, what is happening to you? Behold, you too are approaching the springtime of your life. Spun 
and wrapped up in nothing but conventional rules of conduct and notions, you believe to be entirely in 
accordance with your own professions, think only the laws that the state or custom imposes on you are 
important, and if no other more powerful alarm clock came, you would also, like the pupae of the butterfly or
the larvae of a flying insect, your whole life remain what school and domestic education has made you into!
10] But as with the butterfly in his pupae the image already forms itself into his future existence and his 
body is already prepared, not to crawl along the ground like before, but to be carried by two light pairs of 
wings through the air - so also despite all the wrong education in you men a higher spiritual man is enclosed 
in you, who has only been concealed, but not destroyed, and in which, as with the pupae of the butterfly, 
only one impulse is needed to burst the larvae, so that his wings can grow out and he as a free airy being, 
spreading his wings easily in the warming ray of sunlight, can enjoy a higher spiritual life, and with his new 
sucking organs, instead of former eating tools, to be able to suck his light food from the similar limbs of the 
plant kingdom, the flowers clothed in color, which are alike with him, for the further preservation of himself. 
11] So it is with you, My dear children, as well.
12] As soon as the more mature and serious time of your life approaches, I send the warming rays of My
love, giving the first impulse through various sufferings and misfortunes to break through the hard worldly 
crust of learned prejudices, so that you may learn to understand that in many cases the things you have 
learned are not enough to comfort you; the inner spiritual man moves, knocks on his worldly shell, wants to 
spread his wings, because he feels that he is created for a higher existence than the worldly one; the 
sufferings from the outside and the pushing from within work together, and in some cases the worldly shell 
which surrounded the spiritual man bursts, and free like a butterfly, cheering and thanking, he floats towards 
the spiritually warming sun, feels comfortable in its rays, sucking only the spiritual eternally never passing 
teachings of My love as the finest flower juices of My wisdom, and then becomes what the butterfly on earth 
is, in the spiritual heaven he becomes a child of light or – “My child” and free as a butterfly.
13] So understand the butterfly, and as it is adorned with the most beautiful colors in delicate dust covering
its wings, rejoice in its life, so you too shall have covered your soul wings with the pollen of divine qualities 
and, instead of the lower earth and worldly turmoil, you shall prefer sunlight food of My divine love and 
wisdom for your preservation over all other foods.
14] This, My child, is the symbolic imagery that a heart turned towards Me can draw from the butterfly and 
its appearance in nature, you too will become what it is and you will always be able to rejoice in My sun of 
grace in the joyful flights of the spirit through the miracles of creation!
15] And now we go on to the second creature that interests you and of which you want to know its spiritual 
meaning; so hear then:
16] From the very beginning I have said that what the butterfly is among the flying insects that is the 
swallow among the birds; now then, in order to prove this, we must take a closer look at the species to which 
it belongs.
17] See now, My dear child, if there is a spiritual similarity between animals, then this must be understood 
in such a way that not all conditions of one animal are exactly repeated figuratively in the other, but that I as 
creator only intend an even, regulated advancement in order in both the one and the other animal.
16
18] Now, behold, there are different kinds of birds; their difference being either in plumage, song, or nest, 
according to the food they take to transform the lower into the higher.
19] Well, under this species there are animals that draw their food from coarser elements, or are the 
herbivores and grain-eaters, and finally yet another species that lives from flying insects, which insects 
themselves in their species are the most educated in spiritual regards, “sunlight-collectors" (see "The Fly", 
Chapter 11, The Fly as a Collector of Light and Life).
20] Well, this latter food is just directed to the swallows, the birds that are so pleasing to you, and it is 
precisely in this respect that the swallows resemble butterflies, because they also only consume the finest 
food, then from them the next stage, the bird species already gifted with noble singing. In their (swallow’s) 
organism already all that is spiritual collects itself, which - although almost silent or only expressed in the 
simple chirping- only in the other higher species loud rejoicing voices becomes a song of thanksgiving for 
me!
21] And so the swallows are those animals which are nourished by the food of the sun and which are always
friends with man, who is also closer to the spiritual sun.
22] They, the swallows, choose human dwellings to build their nests, through their food they free you from 
many other plagues, and although man is cruel to many others of their species and kills them, partly to 
prepare a delicacy for his spoiled palate, partly to exterminate them out of boredom and murder, he is more 
tolerant of this species of birds. It is a certain shyness that prevents him from chasing these animals away 
from his dwelling, which have approached him so trustingly, and he is not wrong about it; for as long as 
swallows nest under his roof and flutter around it, it is a sign that healthy air surrounds it, where also the 
flying insects that are destined to feed them can dwell. But if one or the other is lacking, man may be 
convinced that illness and death will soon enter his house and his country; as well as when the flowers and 
the butterflies that live from their juices are lacking. 
23] Where both are missing, My blessing is far away, and unfortunately the breeding rod is swung there 
over an incorrigible people, after My love and words of grace found only deaf ears.
24] So also all of you, My children, be active in My school that I am not forced to withdraw My messengers 
of peace from your homes on your earth; for then the pleading for help will no longer be of use, and you 
have to submit to more harsh remedies, which I would be compelled to apply, but mind you only in the very 
last case.
25] Now, My dear daughter, you have a weak notion of how to observe and understand My nature and its 
individual members when doing spiritual research. 
26] But that there is still much and strange to say about these two little animals, you can imagine; for they 
are creatures of a God; and therefore their meaning is also infinite! Amen.
Chapter 06
Forget-me-not and rattlesnake (November 23, 1870)
01] My dear children! It often happens to you in your life that you bring together quite different objects 
which do not seem to have at least one connection among themselves, and then the question arises from your 
17
heart: "These strange things, which have just come to My mind, would like to know, as strange as one thing 
is to the other, whether there is a spiritual connection between them, because these very objects without My
will met so coincidentally in My head?
02] I can only reply to this remark that it sometimes happens in dreams too, that unimagined objects are 
reflected in the brain in front of your soul and unite the most bizarre things in themselves like in a 
kaleidoscope. It is in this kinship of things which are not known to you and which, when viewed from the 
outside, may not have a "rapport" with one another, but in spiritual regard, and in spiritual interpretation,
there are many things that are closer to than you than you might have guessed because of their external 
diversity. 
03] I recently proved to you the close spiritual relationship which exists between a butterfly and a swallow. 
There are two other things here which, according to the common understanding of man, do not appear to be 
in the least related, for a flower and a serpent are certainly not objects that have a spiritual kinship; as you are 
accustomed to thinking, certainly not!
04] But as I look at it, I must confess to you that you could not have found a better relationship than that 
between the flower and the snake called into question. How is it possible? You will ask, and I answer, only a 
little patience, everything will be proved in a completely natural way.
05] The first and younger questioner asked: “What does the little flower forget-me-not mean"? Well, the 
answer is easily given.
06] It means that the person who gives the little flower to an honored or beloved person is trying to tell her 
that this person should not forget the giver of the little flower, so that with the removal the forgetting does 
not also occur.
07] Well, now let's go a little further and ask first of all: “This flower, which you Germans have given such 
a name to, is it then an actual trait of the flower or something else, why exactly this flower in the so-called 
flower language should mean this constant remembrance?
08] So I must answer that only you Germans gave this flower this name, and many other nations in their 
own language either do not know this flower at all or call it by completely different names.
09] What you call "flower language" and know many of its meanings, what this or that flower means or 
should express, is a language from ancient Asia and has a deep and spiritual origin, but the key to explaining 
these relationships has long since been lost for you, and you know at most only the relations, but the "why" 
remains un-deciphered for you.
10] This name "Forget-me-not" also derives from such a language of correspondence.
11] Let us, then, see how these words, expressed as flowers, so quite literally in a spiritual way, aptly 
describe them.
12] Therefore, This little flower, which is distinguished neither by smell nor by other striking beauty, grows 
only on the banks of fresh, clear, flowing brooks, is spiritually speaking the result of the effects of natural 
forces, which build up a little flower under shady shrubs and trees and swirling grasses, which has its roots, 
as it were, in the ever-moving water away from the burning rays of the sun, its’s blue leaves unfold under 
cool air and watery fragrances, dressing them with the colors of the sky and thus, modestly without pomp 
and splendor, faithfully fulfilling its destiny, which it has among the plants.
18
13] So the spiritual or the spiritual tendency and characteristic of this flower is - humility, modesty and 
simplicity expressed in morals and thoughts.
14] Many a pleasant man, walking along the lonely bank of a small flowing stream, admiring nature with a 
spiritually kindred soul, admiring its silent work and gentle charms, felt attracted to the other soul to 
immortalize these divinely pure hours, enjoyment in the eternally equal bosom of nature by the fact that he, 
unconsciously precisely chose this flower to express his feelings, in order to keep the memory of hours of 
pure enjoyment alive in the recipient's chest, by saying with it:
15]"Forget-me-not! when in the tumult of the world other conditions try to blur these gently enjoyed hours, 
remain simple, and humble like this flower; never seek the splendor of the world’s sun to show off and shine 
in it, but like this little flower only seek the shade, that is to say, secluded from all the noise in other flowery 
meadows, surrounded by thousands of honeysuckles, you too should stay away from it in the shade of your 
own self; seeking to preserve for yourself this peace and simplicity, which, like the flower, is to become the 
necessary air of life, the only inner prize of life for you!
16] Forget-me-not in difficult hours, it is the friend or girlfriend who shares your destiny!"
17] So this little flower has remained as a type of humility, the gentle remembrance of deep-feeling hearts; 
and just as the pure air at the flowing spring maintains and refreshes the little flower, so this call of friends
should also awaken similar feelings to the wandering pilgrim on his path of life as this little flower does, 
leading him back to the eternally equally clear flowing source of his inner water of life, in order to find his 
own food there, which will then also replace everything else.
18] Here you have the actual spiritual equivalent, closely related to your future destiny, of a simple flower, 
the forget-me-not!
19] Now let’s turn to the rattlesnake to see what this animal gives us for teachings and correspondences that I
have placed in its essence and which only the spiritually reborn man could discern without My help! Well, 
listen then! Just as the little flower blossoms and grows in silence under shady trees, so this snake, like most 
of the others of its species, prefers to stay in secluded and quiet places. What the flower refers to as innocent, 
that’s what this deadly creeping creature refers to, only in a different way!
20] There the people are drawn into the shady groves, and here it warns them of the thicket. There a little 
flower blooms, the connoisseur can pick it without shyness and, according to its name, give it to friends as a 
souvenir. Here death lurks amidst lush nature, and when the little flower called upon him to express his 
present feelings: “forget-me-not! But here nature and caution must call out to him: “Do not forget me, O 
man, that I may lurk there and hide death where there should otherwise be peace".
21] The rattlesnake has been given a row of movable scales at the back, which can make a strange noise 
similar to the rattling or clashing of metal shells. This device is usually used by this animal when it sees its
prey in front of it, based on food.
22] Through this noise, which exerts a kind of magnetic influence on its victims, it stuns its prey once it has 
entered its area, so that it can no longer flee from there. And the more the murder and appetite in the snake 
then increases, the more she develops her psychological-magnetic influence on her victim, until it seizes it, 
covers it with her drool and crushes it after robbing it of its life by a poisonous bite, and then gradually 
chokes it down into her throat.
19
23] Behold, what a spiritual image of correspondence is given to us in the serpent, for him who does not 
listen to the call of his friend, and under the tumult and clatter of the seductive world, lets himself be carried 
away in his tumult, until he, completely incapable of releasing himself, is spiritually killed by the poisonous 
bite of the vice, gradually settles into the world and his soul will perish in his flesh!
24] One should also have shouted to him: “Do not forget Me in the wild noise of the world; in the shady 
grove, in the green of the forest, on the edge of a clear stream, a simple flower blossomed and betrayal
lurked! You were not careful enough, trusting your strength, in the end you did not heed your friend's call, 
and instead of pursuing the more noble, delicate and beautiful image of the silent nature, you forgot the snake 
of seduction, which hides the poisonous snake bite under the blossoming blanket of worldly life, until the 
right moment came when instead the friend should tell you: you forgot My gentle admonition, so that you 
forgot the serpent, who now draws you completely entangled into spiritual death.
25] As I recently said, everything has two sides, the light as well as the shadow side.
26] Only the awakened person can tell the difference and can sense the danger even if it is covered with 
flowers.
27] I too, little children, also call on you:
28]"Do not forget the humility of the flower and its meaning! And do not forget that the snake of seduction
often lurks among the rose hedges!
29] But do not forget Me who will always lead you, that you may anticipate the danger, however hidden it 
may be! And so remember these two images, one the image of meekness and humility, the other as a spiritual 
warning sign where you do not believe the enemy, and both of them cry out to you: “Do not forget me" or in 
evangelical words: “Be as cunning as snakes, but as innocent as doves." Amen.
Chapter 07
Typhoon, or Giant Waterspouts in the Pacific Ocean (February 19, 1871)
01] Your brother has asked you for a spiritual explanation of the storm which his friend almost fell victim to 
in the Pacific Ocean.
02] I am well aware of your brother's desire to draw this friend into the realm of your faith and doctrine of 
life.
03] The wish is worthy of all honor, and it would also be pleasant for Me too if it were fulfilled; but the 
realization is not as easy as your brother believes.
04] I have already told you many times that men who are not afflicted by misery or other sad circumstances 
and who are not admonished to turn their backs on worldly joys and interests are difficult to win for My
kingdom. They are accustomed to carrying a cross on their shoulders, however light it might be.
05] The admonitions, which I sometimes send them through dangers and misfortunes, but from which they 
always happily escape because it is My will, have only a momentary influence on them and their impressions 
are immediately forgotten, like the suffering in the bed of a sick person after the establishment of health.
20
06] So it is with your brother's friend: This friend, probably endowed with a noble heart, as you would say, 
and with cosmopolitan views, has also experienced many things, where the other world or the transition into 
it was very close to him; he has also in those moments, pressed by the circumstances, thought of me; But, the 
danger passed - and I was set aside again, as the Chinese (where he has now been) do with their household 
gods, to whom they only grant the place of honor in the house when they need the help of such a God; if 
what one wanted is achieved, the God will be put down again, locked into a dark chamber and can wait there 
until another difficult matter brings him out of his hiding place. Your brother wants to win this friend for me, 
so he judges, but whether his friend wants to be won over is another matter!
07] Your brother asks for the spiritual explanation of a "typhoon" or " whirlwind" or "giant waterspouts" as 
you call it, what it should have meant spiritually in relation to his friend.
08] Well, that is settled immediately with two words: spiritually this storm wants to show: men are 
powerless and My omnipotence; here you have its spiritual explanation and meaning.
09] But as far as your brother's friend personally is concerned, this storm, as well as many other things that 
this friend experienced was only a spiritual hint that there is still someone above all science and intelligent 
calculation who knows how to produce the greatest effects by simple means.
10] Behold, this friend has now almost circumnavigated the whole world; he has seen many countries and 
people, other animals, plants and flowers, has breathed in a different air than yours and through this he has 
influenced his inner self; Wherever he stood and went, I have guided him and given him many instructive 
signs of My existence; only he was too busy with his mission (with earthly things) to be able to hear the 
spiritual voice within him.
11] But now that he returns to his domestic flock, greets his children and his wife again, now there are many 
things to be done to kill the time, as you would say, all events experienced will be regarded as natural and are 
also explained in such a way, which generally helps to increase the pride of a returnee of long journeys
because he has overcome these dangers; the spiritual warnings and signs that lie in such moments are the 
least appreciated and even less understood.
12] After all, there is so much spirituality in a person's life that he does not understand that such moments do 
not have to be counted, where the intrusion of another world with such grandeur or other important events 
has merged with human life! How often do I remind My children, and how little do they understand My
admonitions and think it is just a game of chance.
13] But your brother would like to know in detail what this storm in the Pacific Ocean means, where his 
friend with his ship was in danger for days to be hurled out of earthly life and in a few days afterwards to fall 
into eternal oblivion.
14] I have said it before, it was only a sign of human powerlessness against My omnipotence; it was a hint 
showing how little the calculation of the journey, the crossing of the winds or the current of the water helps 
when I, for example, as it happened there, let the steering wheel break.
15] What does that mean spiritually? It wants to say spiritually: what good is all self-confidence when the 
main factor, the trust in Me is missing!
21
16] Of course, in danger I am then called upon to help, but earlier I would have been superfluous; the man, 
proud of his little science and boasting of himself, overlooking abysses and dangers, daring to do everything 
as if he had no need of a higher spirt and was self-sufficient.
17] It is precisely to minimize this self-conceit that I send such unforeseen natural events, and let men 
without them knowing it, approach great natural phenomena, where again great processes necessary for the 
welfare of the earth are taking place, in order to make men feel their nothingness and at least to show for 
moments that they are not the masters of the world, but that only I am the Lord!
18] Your friend felt the same way, he came too close to one of those great whirlwinds (These waterspouts
there draw hundreds, often thousands of miles of large areas into their area.), which in the Pacific ocean 
precedes a great spawn of nature spirits, where just in the middle of the Pacific Ocean, where the moon was 
once separated from the earth in the same place, these spirits are freed from their captivity, and pass into the 
lighter, flowing air, in order to be allowed to approach their further education there; there they are rotating
together, and where the conical air column with pure nature spirits descends in order to gradually take the 
lower ones into their realm, a water mountain rises up there, also conically shaped, impregnated with these 
nature elements.
19] The greedy sucking up from above and the quick pushing of water from below causes a circular 
movement, which then becomes more and more violent as the urge to rise increases and the ascent from 
below accelerates, then pulls over the wide expanse of the sea and draws everything into this whirlwind
dance, which he encounters on his way.
20] Figuratively, this event resembles the whirling dance of life and the people who are carried away in it; 
they too are drawn into this circle of interests and desires, cannot come to a proper consciousness; one event 
pushes the other, regions, landscapes, countries, everything flees past them like the people who inhabit them; 
all vices, all virtues, customs and traditions so completely give the form of a "typhoon" or whirlwind in 
spiritual relation to these passing travelers that only the head as spiritual control, maintains the entire power 
of judgement in case of need, so that it does not get completely lost.
21] That is what I wanted to show the ships passengers when their supposed steering wheel is broken, that 
they themselves no longer know what they should adhere to. And so your friend and his companions on their 
ship also broke the steering wheel, and they were exposed to the waves, winds and My will, just as they 
must, without their common sense, fall prey to all passions and desires on the waves of life and no longer 
know where their heads are actually standing.
22] When the steering wheel on the ship was broken, they first saw that there was something higher, a 
higher being, to whom they turned, and silently inside they begged for help. What did that mean? "If in your 
calculating earthly life you no longer have the power of reason, then descend into your heart, there you will 
find an abundance of wealth which will also lead you back to the same God whom you have invoked 
inevitably in the middle of the sea between waves and winds.
23] There seek your peace and your point of reference, if the sense of reason fails, there you will learn that 
far beyond all calculation and all earthly, transient treasures an even higher one lies hidden there, which will 
lead you to where you will get to know the actual value of the world and your very self!
24] Your brother now wants to bring his friend, through such a spiritual explanation of the storm in the 
Pacific Ocean, to the point where he too, now that he has happily sailed through the worldly Great Ocean, in 
22
the same way enters the quiet ocean of domestic peace and tranquility, which is more worthy of the name
than that great expanse of water where great processes of development are carried out in the earth in silence, 
but which do not always take place as quietly for humans as the name given to this sea suggests.
25] Your brother would like to tell his friend, when he is back in the circle of his family: “Look, brother, 
now you have seen and experienced much in the world, and yet with all this seeing and experiencing you 
have not yet arrived at the source where peace and tranquility dwell and man can rejoice in his spiritual 
existence and mission.
26] Throughout your stay in foreign countries, you have done much for others and little for yourself; you 
will also be rewarded and compensated for this in a worldly way; now comes the time of physical rest, a 
standstill in domestic life where nothing new changes, but other obligations come to you that you owe to 
your family and children. See, now that the curiosity to see other countries, other peoples is satisfied, now 
that you, honored by your comrades and appreciated by your monarch, will be sufficiently compensated, now 
I come, old friend, and would like to give you friendly advice. Behold, those who suffer, have for years been 
bound only to a room with four walls, at most able to take a little walk in the open air by means of slow 
movement, behold, the Lord of the great creation, of which you have seen more miracles than I have ever 
read, this Lord full of grace has opened My heart, has shown Me how much beauty and grandeur is buried 
there, and now that I have found peace and comfort, even divine bliss through this finding, now the desire is 
rising in Me to let you, My old friend, enjoy the same thing, and all the more so that you also have children 
and certainly want to educate them to be men in God's image.
27] Now I am urged to open this way for you, o listen to My words, now that the outside world has left you 
enough unforgettable impressions, let Me now open your gold mine inside so that you too, who may think 
and feel the same way with me in so many things, may also agree with Me in this pure, holiest and most 
exalted point! This is also the reason why, in My simplicity, I asked the Lord to help Me and to express in 
His words that which is not possible for My weak tongue.
28] Now that we enjoy in our circle this great grace of the Lord's direct communication, take these lines 
from Him, O friend, to the loving Father who, as He draws us all, wants to welcome you and yours into the 
circle of worshippers of His Word; let yourself be drawn by Him and you will see that wherever He leads 
you, the way will not reprove you; for as I and many others can testify to you, this way leads to the only 
happiness that man can achieve in this world - to the happiness of knowing himself and his Creator as 
Father!"
29] So if your brother will present to his returning friends your aspiration and My influence into you, then 
be sure that he will not remain unmoved, and even if he does not become yours immediately, I will make 
sure that from time to time the impressions of this written word will be refreshed by events, so that he does 
not forget God and his Father, the God who did not forget him in the turmoil of battle as well as in the 
cyclone whirlwind, when he called on Him there begging for help, which he also received, which proves his 
return to the best health.
30] Your brother just has to be patient, trust in me, and the rest will then teach him to what extent his trust 
was founded or not! Amen.
23
Chapter 08
The Essence of Air, Water, Earth and Fire (June 25, 1871)
01] These were for some time the four elements from which, as mankind once believed, the whole universe 
or at least the earth and all the cosmic bodies existed.
02] For a long time this belief remained firm until the art of separation, called "chemistry" by you, found out 
several more elements that resisted any further decomposition and whose number has now (1871) grown to
about 70.
03] What the men of science regard as primitive elements and present them as original principles, however, 
are by no means the last substances from which My Creation is composed, but the researchers in this field 
lack firstly the means for the further division of the substances and secondly the senses to be able to perceive 
the divided substances.
04] The fact that these contemplators did not get any further in My works than they have until now, when 
their whole science at the end goes to use all their discoveries in practical life only for worldly purposes, it is
because it has not yet occurred to any chemist to acknowledge Me as the first sculpture artist, to comprehend 
and to learn to love me!
05] For this very reason I also leave them all where they have now come, where they have drawn enough 
experiences from My nature, which certainly helped to promote the self-interest of men but not their charity.
06] It is not the purpose here either to entertain you with chemical analyses or to uncover new things; it is 
enough of the old!
07] But what the masters of Science do not want to recognize is that, although they encounter the strictest 
laws in chemistry, they do not want to recognize any legislator, even though they find his trace at every step; 
if they were free of prejudice, they would certainly not be able to deny the same.
08] But now we want to return to our first mentioned "four elements" and see what spiritual relationship 
exists there with My creation and with myself, which may be more instructive to you than all the rules of the 
art of separation together with their thousands of names from all the languages that have long since been out 
of use.
09] See, My children, if you look closely and attentively at these four elements, as air, water, earth and fire, 
you should notice first that the air is the most delicate, slightly mobile element, the water is already denser -
your eyes already as a body, albeit still noticeable in the liquid state, the earth is a conglomerate of solid 
objects such as stones, sand and decayed and decomposed remnants of the animal and plant world existing 
on it, and finally fire is the element that destroys everything and organizes it into other forms.
10] Now behold, the air is spiritually synonymous with My Creator's thought, where everything still rests 
together without having gained independence, only waiting for the first hint of further development; the 
water, as compressed air, is spiritual: condensed thoughts into ideas, which then, when carried out, form 
continuous spiritual entities, like the earth; and where finally as a disintegrating principle driving them to 
eternal renewal, love appears like fire, which, always creating anew, reconstructs the worn out into new 
forms.
24
11] Well, just as these four elements represent your entire globe, the existing in it as well as the surrounding, 
so do these qualities as: Thought, idea, deed and love that preserves and transforms, myself as the creating 
God.
12] For I also create My thoughts for the time being, then form them into ideas, give these ideas the impulse 
to step into reality, to shape themselves, and when the things presented in this way have gone through their 
course of life, the spiritual in them has led them to higher levels, then My love is added as a consuming, 
decomposing element, as fire, it enables by combustion the remaining coarser elements to engage in new 
activities in other forms, so that what was once created can never cease to exist.
13] In the air surrounding your globe, all substances are in a dissolved state, which belong to the existence 
of the earth, its atmosphere, its prosperity, both the coarse material parts and the plants and animals living on 
it.
14] They lie there locked up as embryos like the first primordial germs for further training.
15] The Influence of Ether on the atmosphere (See in "Earth and Moon", Part 1 A "The Natural Earth", 
Chap. 20ff.), the influence of sunlight and its heat rays and the influence of all the larger, distant and near-by 
world bodies and suns contribute to awakening the elements still resting in child's slumber, to develop and to 
prepare them for their further purpose, where, beginning with the transient movement of water, they are then 
transformed back into the living spiritual by consuming them with the increased heat of their energy, 
emerging as primitive elements in order to start from there a new cycle of creations. 
16] Thus water has actually been the mother or parent of all continents of the world. So everything was and 
is still present in the sea, as a large container of everything to be produced, everything is present in dissolved 
states, which is then returned to the atmosphere by evaporation, precipitation, underground combustion etc. 
to re-establish new connections, after the spiritual has risen to higher levels from all these elements and only 
the coarser, hardly soluble, has remained as material components.
17] From the hardest stone of the earth's foundations to the softest clay, you see a series of gradual 
developments of the primordial elements situated in the air, like thoughts, in the water as compressed air, like 
the condensed thoughts to ideas; formed in the earth as material components of them, like the deed; and 
finally in the constant change, disintegration, and burning of the existing, the eternal effect of the everrecreating love, where something new is built out of the old and driven to the great process of development, 
and that continues as long as it takes until the last material becomes spiritual.
18] So what you see figuratively before your eyes in the four elements, that is the spiritual course of all My
thoughts of creation, it is the way of all created things, it is also your way!
19] For also in yourselves, namely in the spiritual soul-man, thoughts develop for the time being; without 
certain or definite tendencies they float in the brain, in the heart, and wait for the impulse to unite to 
something solid; they are like the air, easily moving and quickly changing their form.
20] As soon as you indulge more in a thought, its necessary collaborators gather around it, generate and 
excrete what is equal to the process of water - so the connection of ideas in the human soul: the ideas come to 
fruition as deeds, as firmly developed deeds, like the mainland that emerged from the water, which totality of 
deeds actually stamps the spiritual man with what he will once be in My Kingdom.
25
21] But since the deed as a product of thoughts and ideas also affects others, it too is made by the spiritual 
decomposition of love into its first elemental instincts either to the divine, sublime or to the wicked, where its 
consequences must then fall back on their own originator; for in the spiritual it is not the fulfilment of an act
that counts, but this: under what motives it was thought and put into practice.
22] Therefore, every human being should consider well beforehand before he decides to act, that it is built 
and born on the purest moral ground, so that it can never have evil consequences on his consciousness, so 
that at the end of his pure willingness to do the best, the evil consequences caused by misuse or 
misunderstanding, may fall not on him as the originator, but on the person who exploits this action for his 
own advantage.
23] You see here the spiritual path of an act, they go the same way as air, water, earth and fire, the same way 
as My thoughts of creation, which matter and finally also My spirits as well as you as spiritual men have to 
go through.
24] For the spiritual garment in the hereafter is the expression of the totality of thoughts, formed into ideas, 
developed for action and spiritualized by love.
25] So, My children, just as the air is the carrier of all future bodily things, water is the birthplace of the 
firmer, more solid whole, so also your thoughts, ideas and deeds should flow only from the purest divine 
source, in order to one day be purified, spiritualized by love, to serve you as a crown, which you take over as 
the product of earthly life. Just as the air, as it is easily movable, also brings storms and devastation, so does 
the flood of thoughts, if they are not carefully considered beforehand, wants to overwhelm one another; And 
just as the strong movements of the air also cause great waves on the sea, this pictorial sequence in nature 
shows that also stormy thoughts only evoke excited ideas, which rarely result in something good.
26] And how, at last, the earth often trembles in its bowels through violent earthquakes and volcanic 
eruptions that lead to partial destruction and devastation, as well as the ill-considered act, as the product of a 
swarm of confused thoughts and stormy ideas, which as an immature act will never spread blessings and 
leaves only remorse to its originator.
27] therefore, you too, like the four elements, seek that you also fulfil your purpose as much as air, water, 
earth and fire, which means that only pure thoughts are tolerated in you, which are always worthy of a man 
as My image, that your ideas are always humane, like water, gladly give to others what can be best for them, 
and then they have as deeds the same product as the solid earth crust, which is born out of the water and this
from its producing sister, the air, then standing there adorned with all the beauties that a loving hand of a 
creator could put into it; so that your deeds may not shy away from love, but as the earth when trembling
through volcanic eruptions only increases its own activity as an end result, and that goodness falls to you as a 
worthy consciousness and evil to the false interpreters.
28] So follow Me, follow your four elements in their principles and your spirit man will one day be able to 
be in all measure what I have created him for when he, like the earth, has happily survived his storms and 
revolutions, which were just as necessary for his spiritual survival as those great upheavals which your globe 
had to undergo before it became what it is now, that is: a paradise garden, for My children! Amen. (you can 
see the seven seasons of earth building in the Great Gospel) 156-163 (ev01.156 et seq.); Volume 2, Chapter 
215 (ev02.215); Volume 5, Chapter 197 (ev05.197); Volume 7, Chapter 70 et seq. (Jl. ev07.070))
26
Chapter 09
The Apple (July 7, 1871)
01] The Son of your brother has asked you for a word concerning the comparison which I made in the 
Spiritual Sun with an apple.
02] But the dear child did not understand the actual meaning of this speech. I cited the apple as an example 
that everywhere in all products and forms an even deeper spiritual something lies hidden, it does not have to 
be just an apple, but every object in its state of nature has a spiritual meaning, that is to say a spiritual, 
corresponding similarity with something from the spirit heaven and its ethereal products.
03] But since this child would like to know something about the apple in particular, I want to draw his 
attention to some of the peculiarities of this fruit, which expresses its form and content spiritually - and even 
more deeply in heavenly terms.
04] But before moving on to the apple itself, we first want to touch upon its emergence from the blossom 
lightly and then proceed to the fruit.
05] Well, then listen, My dear child:
06] You will remember that in another word I said to a dear daughter: “the flower is the bride's estate". So it 
is also the flowering of a tree, it is also the second to last stage of its actual destiny as a tree, because the last 
one is the fruit itself.
07] And if you look closely at a flower, you will notice that in addition the white petals, it also has filaments 
and in the middle of them the actual reproductive apparatus.
08] As soon as the bloom reaches full maturity and enters its final stage as a flower, where the filaments 
begin to fill as fertilizers with the finest juice of the tree as a pollinator and this juice is then spiritualized by 
the sunlight, the moment approaches when these filaments then bend inwards into the calyx of the flower, 
discharge this moisture and then force the calyx to close.
09] The leaves of the flowers as well as the empty filaments fall off, the lower part of the blossom closes, 
and a juice rising from the inside then begins to gradually find this closed capsule and form the fruit or apple.
10] Where the inoculation through the filaments took place, first the main part of the fruit is formed, the 
kernels are the seeds, and in order to develop them completely, juices are constantly draw in from the inside 
of the tree, surround the kernels in order to protect them from the influences of the weather, but also to 
provide them with food through the moisture stored in their cells, until they have developed themselves, and 
developed their inner as well as their outer parts.
11] The thousands and thousands of cells that surround the nucleus are thus those that are constantly being 
filled more and more and enlarged in size and thus form the crown of the apple, which is also just opposite 
the calyx, at the end still shows the inflection where the fertilization took place.
12] So these juices accumulate, are robbed of their larger acidic substance by sunlight and the sun’s heat, the 
water evaporates and the rest is transformed into something more sweet than sour in taste.
27
13] Thus the apple remains, enters the process of oxidation on its surface, which is why its skin is colored on 
some sides facing the sun, indicating a change in its inner substance, which, having arrived at the last point 
of development, wants to change into other forms by decomposing its elements.
14] The spiritual analogy of the apple is that it has the shape of your earth, on which it grows and to which it 
also owes its origin.
15] The apples are different in taste according to the essence on which the trunk grows, nitric acid 
substances surround the roots, and it is also true that where the apples have been raised to greater than usual 
volume, even in the raw state of nature, they are not among the most pleasant food because of the large mass 
of acid which they have absorbed from the earth through the trunk; they process the acid in their cellular 
tissue by means of the sun's heat, It cannot be completely removed by itself, and then only partially escapes 
when it is cooked by means of fire.
16] The further spiritual meaning of the apple is an important one for your entire generation, since it was 
just an apple which I, as a test of obedience, forbade the first man to eat and figuratively meant to tell them:
17] "Do not bite into this sour apple, for you and all your descendants will have to pay for it"
18] I chose the apple as a symbol, imagining the earth, who had also kept enough of the acidity for her 
future inhabitants, and it was just Eve who carried out what I wanted to spare her, she bit into the sweet and 
sour fruit and thus passed on to all her family the acidic and bitter sufferings hidden under sweet garments to 
which the female sex is subjected until the end of her life.
19] In general, it is also true for women that the more they are exalted and overblown, the more sour and 
bitter their minds are, and they also are not to be enjoyed until the strong fire of purification makes them less
acidic and thus more bearable for human society.
20] As with the apple, the smaller and the rosy-cheeked its outside is, like a girl whose health is written on 
her forehead, the sweeter the apple is and the better the girl's mind.
21] The greener, harder and more distended the apple is, the more it resembles the female being, which is
almost green with anger and jealousy and does not want to tolerate anyone next to it! 
22] The apple was the first source of seduction for the first woman of the earth and at the same time
remained the image for all her gender, it also expresses the life of this earth incidentally where, in order to 
come to the knowledge of himself, man must earn his bread sourly by the sweat of his brow, where he has to 
struggle with all the vices and passions, having to train himself to be My former child and, finishing his 
mission through bitter and sour experiences only then enters into the life afterward as another, better, 
spiritual one.
23] What is the flowering of the tree in man's life is his first awakening to the earthly life, where he does not 
know any sorrow or suffering, until the filaments of human life teach him the first wounds and through this 
etching incite him to fight and quarrel with his own nature and the world surrounding him. 
24] And as the calyx of the blossom closes and then the inner juices find fruit, so also the young wounded 
heart closes, and from within the life elements of its own nature, and from the outside receiving as 
nourishment that of its mother earth, it too will be a container of good and bad, sweet and sour passions and 
peculiarities, until finally in the struggle with itself, the bitterness eradicated, it approaches its higher destiny.
And like the apple, the cell tissue surrounding the core contains the means for the further development of 
28
another tree, so it is also the good qualities which should surround and protect the soul as a nucleus with its 
garments, enabling the human being for a series of higher levels of education.
25] What the apple contains in itself as sourness, these are the impure impulses in man, which on the one 
hand incite him to grant it, but on the other hand inspire the better self to resist and thus produce a dissolving 
principle from the struggle of the sweet and sour, which has become a healing principle for the human being, 
when it is at its best as a tasty juice, if it has become the result of his life as a bitter vinegar or intoxicating 
wine.
26] Therefore you too, My beloved child, in whom everything is still sweet and sour, as in the budding 
apple, is understood in the fermentation process that the sourness in you does not gain the upper hand, for 
what love actually is as warmth, this is the sugar as opposed to the hatred, anger and other passions that arise 
from bile and are to be understood as synonymous with acidity.
27] Strive forward! be attentive to yourself and to the impulses in your heart, so that you do not have to "bite 
into a sour apple", as the saying goes: once upon a time, but that you are still outgoing at the moment, only 
sharpen the goodness in deeds around you, and so confidently embark on the path of the second spiritual 
succession in the hereafter!
28] Here you have the triple image of the apple: as a fruit, as a symbol of the earth and as a counterpart to 
human life.
29] Take the proper teaching from it, so that this word has not been given to you in vain. This is what your 
father tells you, who will always strengthen you bless your actions! Amen.
Chapter 10
From Darkness to Light (I), The Flower (March 05, 1871)
01] Well, here I want to explain to you not only the recently viewed spiritual vision which overcame you at 
the sight of a torn down fir-tree, not only to explain in more detail, but also to give you further insights about 
the spiritual relationship that exists between all material products and the spiritual world, and as in every 
little plant the entire spiritual career of a human being, such as a spirit or an angel, is founded, implied and 
precisely described.
02] Only the inner vision is needed to be able to read and interpret this spiritual scripture of correspondences. 
03] Such a bright moment overcame you as you immersed yourself in the beauties of a fir-tree, on which 
also his future fruit was already set, a mood in which you could read and see My grace and love in this little 
creation.
04] It left you in a gentle mood all day long, you were also reconciled with your destiny for a few moments, 
content with what I let you see and feel spiritually in My Nature at a glance.
05] But since I have set you up as a teacher and guide for the others and the manifestations which you 
receive through Me are to extend even further than your sphere of action and your own life span, so also this 
spiritual vision is not to be given to you alone, but it is to become a general, spiritual view which everyone 
can then do when he does not want to read My nature superficially, but wants to read spiritually written in 
29
capital letters which are the only words that shine forth, sound out and come forward from all angles, 
namely: “God is love!"
06] I will call out these words to you, to you and all of humanity in these following words, to show them and 
possibly to awaken them in every heart so that you may all recognize, respect and learn to understand the 
great plan and purpose of your Creator. I will lead you all "From Night to Light” as your loyal collaborator in 
My vineyard, the tireless Busch in Dresden has only recently written to you!
07] Yes, God is love! Love is the one who created the worlds, who receives them and who will continue to 
advance them until they are complete.
08] It is love that has put all its power, all its fervor and all its zeal into every material or spiritual creation.
09] God is this love, He who guides you, indulges with you and your fellow-beings, always overwhelms you 
with graces and blessings; He who wants to show you spiritually all created things that only the same
purpose, the same principle has guided Him, and when your eye is turned away from the worldly, you can 
once see the spirituality of the forms and formations of the material world, since the creation of the material 
world you will find everything prepared long ago, which then spiritually read is necessary to lead you 
upwards into that region, where matter ceases and the spiritual begins, and where the corporeal, transient 
changes with the eternal, shows you both on a small scale and on a large scale, the same words are shown to 
you in thousands of forms, pictures and images, all of which are all only to breathe love, and spread love 
with one another and so are to lead you from the dark material world, from night to the spirit-bright, eternally 
never passing world, to the light!
10] So it was also the same for you when you saw in the fir branch My whole creation in its greatest love 
stimulus, it was as if the spiritual heaven, like the sun in cloudy weather, sent you a ray of light from its 
interior, where sorrow and suffering ceased and only joy, bliss and happiness have their permanent abode.
11] It was not possible to leave you in this mood; for you are still a child on earth and bound too much to 
matter. When the time of full spiritual maturity comes, where matter must release your spirit as a shell, you 
will be able to put on this mood you enjoy only in fleeting moments as a permanent garment, you will 
thereby be able to diffuse light for others and absorb light from others; but it is not yet possible to let you 
enjoy permanently what can only be beneficial to spiritual and not physical-soul beings.
12] But in order to show you the way that all My beings have to go, I just give this word the title: "From 
night to the light, or the flower” because I want to show you and all of you in the flower that the way to this 
spiritually sublime standpoint of love is the same way that every materially created thing, up to My highest 
angelic spirits, must go through and has partly already gone through!
13] I chose the flower over any other plant because the material process of this created symbol of love is 
more familiar to you and therefore easier to understand; I also chose it by the way so that you should not 
make such thoughtless misuse of My creations as is happening with these products from two worlds, namely 
as products of the earth and the world of light, so that when you see or smell the fragrant balsam of a flower, 
you may not only delight your vision and your olfactory nerves, but rather, looking deeper into the chalice of 
the open flower, may you recognize the spiritual, far higher and more beautiful things that I have put into it 
in order to remind you with every flower: "God is love"!
14] Behold, I have just said: "The flower is a product of the earth and light world!" Well, you too are such a 
product; you too are of earth and light, are body and soul as the covering of My divine spirit, you also 
30
wrestle from night to light, as the seed that is inserted into the earth, striving upwards, breaking through the 
clod, towards the light of the sun, its spiritual supreme turns.
15] See and read in the example of a plant that has a flower or fruit for its final purpose, read in it your 
whole life story, as it is also written there as clearly as in yourself!
16] Short-sighted, indifferent people! Open your material and spiritual eyes! Raise your gaze a little higher 
than only to the limits of the visible material; and you will find so clearly written in a plant what I am always 
calling to you with a thousand words: “God - is - love!".
17] Recognize the Father! If you cannot see Him spiritually, then recognize Him in His works!
18] Do not wander around in His wonders so thoughtlessly; be ashamed of yourselves for not being able to 
understand this spiritual scripture (in creation) so clearly written by me!
19] Isn't it sad in your world when a child doesn't know his father, all the more so when a child, the child of 
a creator of so many wonders and beauties, ignores (forgets) his father as if He did not exist for him at all, or 
only when he needs help!
20] Behold, this is the purpose of My word to you today, that you all should learn to understand more the 
spiritual in the world and not just ordinary, trivial necessities of life and worldly worries, forgetting your 
spiritual destiny and Me, wandering on My wonders like dead among the living, like the blind among seeing.
21] If I did not know how lukewarm and indifferent you take all My words, then I would not again repeat to 
you in another way the same thing that you have already read in many different ways, but have unfortunately 
exercised very little.
22] I will do everything to awaken you, to educate you for something better; but if you do not want to be 
awakened, if you prefer spiritual sleep, then do not blame Me when circumstances and events will come
which will wake you up in your worldly tumult not with love, but with terror and despair; you have wanted it 
this way, so enjoy the fruits of your worldly worries for stomach and body, but then the way "from night to 
light" will go somewhat harder and slower than now when I want to introduce you as a gentle, patient guide 
through explanation of My miracles in the material creation into the kingdom of spiritual bliss and happiness.
23] Well, now I want to return to My chosen picture "the flower" or "the plant" again.
24] I have given you only words of warning in between, so that you may understand the seriousness of My
words as well as the greatness of My love, which makes so much effort to open your ears to spirituality!
25] Behold, the plant is laid as a seed in the ground; everything is already prepared in the seed for its future 
destiny, it contains all the means for fulfilling its purpose and for the eternal preservation of its genus by the 
reproduction of new seed. It is in a seed of a single plant that the elements of its gradual progression to a 
higher class lie, and from there on and on, to the component of a spiritual and finally spiritual-soul being, 
until the plant also perfected passes over into the spirit realm and there constitutes an integrity of a least 
being to the highest angelic spirit.
26] Thus you see in a plant a sequential progression from the gross-material to the highest spiritual.
31
27] As soon as the seed is planted in the earth, the first factor of its environment joins its slumbering 
elements; it is the moisture, which consists as a product of two other acting elements, namely compressed air 
or water and heat, the latter being the product of the process of separation and development.
28] Stimulated by this moisture, the seed swells, its outer parts are softened and the inner parts are 
stimulated to develop; from the outside, the nature of the surrounding earth and from the inside, its own 
individuality.
29] Thus, pushed by two factors, the struggle arises, the struggle of the outside with the inner world, where 
in the end the inner world wins, the shell, which kept it separate from its surroundings, disintegrates and 
then, incumbent upon its construction, sucks the suitable out of the surrounding elements and utilizes them 
for further progression, gradually a first shoot moves up and roots down, thus between the two: Night and 
light, earth and sun, the balance is established and the seed can develop according to its purpose which My
will has created it.
30] Thus the plant, nourished by the elements absorbed from the earth and individually processed, always 
penetrates upwards. The higher it penetrates, the less the heaviness of the surrounding earth weighs on it, the 
easier it can overcome the difficulties, it approaches the light, the unseen but perceived light of the sun, the 
higher it penetrates the warmer it feels until it finally arrives in the light of the great benefactor of every 
creature, the plant begins to draw more from the light and less from the earth.
31] Color, substance, everything is then changed, the lower forces of the night must either give way or allow
themselves to be turned into light elements, whereby the plant again helps to carry out another process by 
forming its environment from the coarse to the finer, building itself up, forming its environment to the root 
from the coarse to the finer, and indirectly, apart from its own structure, also helping to promote the 
spiritualization of the earth world surrounding it.
32] The farther the plant grows into the light, the more the air and warm rays of the outer atmosphere
penetrate, the more its components, its elements absorbed from the earth, become refined. 
33] Refined substances also have to produce refined things, therefore, the stems and leaves are softer which 
always receives something even coarser under the influence of the earth, as night. But all this is not enough.
An uncertain urge drives the intellectual parts of a plant towards an unknown something. Up and up it goes. 
The leaves become softer and more delicate. The further the path from the earth to the summit, the more the 
substances of the earth have to be processed, refined by the intelligence of the plant itself, they finally no 
longer belong to leaves, stalks and stems; All the coarse things are then left behind that have been absorbed 
earlier, and yet there is still no end to the activity of development – the best is still hidden in the seed deep in 
the earth night, the spirituality of the plant individuality, which designates its purpose and its continued 
existence.
34] Up to now, this individuality had only processed what belonged to it as its own, but was only a means to 
an end; it had to be eliminated in the past and processed earlier.
35] Now comes what is the girl's highest illusion (flower dream), the last wish, it urges her to the marriage 
of the material with the spiritual, it urges her to the flower, where the end of a material and the beginning of a 
spiritual world is, namely from the flower again the production of the seed or the fruit!
36] All the juices that belonged to the substructure were used up; they, the flower, now gloriously adorned 
in the most beautiful light, smelling and spiritually praising its creator, as the final result of the first process,
32
as the highest stage of the seed and as the lowest level of spiritual reproductive power, where the seed 
produces again, the previously processed atmosphere in other forms and the remnant in seed form or fruit is 
ready to return to the same process of the earth what it had received from it in order to release there 
something new, thus to gradually spiritualize matter, and if you wish to ascend to the higher point of view, 
lead the entire globe through the vegetation towards a higher, more spiritual level.
37] So "from night to light", the seed strives upwards, finally shines in all beauty, Balsamic scents spread as 
flowers greet you on your walks, calling you everywhere:
38]"God is love!" Behold, wanderer, My struggle, My quest and My end on her (the earth)!
39] Follow Me also, for you too are a seed place in a physical shell; fulfill your purpose as I fulfil mine, and 
you too will be clothed as I am with beauty and fragrance, with spiritual enjoyment and delight.
40] Yes, so it is, My children! Hear this call of a tiny little plant, speechless in the field for ordinary man, 
but for the spiritual one a whole gospel of the love and grace of its Creator.
41] Follow this plant - from night to light, and fulfill your purpose like this seed, and you can be assured that
you too will shine and smell as spiritual flowers in My kingdom!
42] If you look carefully at all the steps that the plant has to go through until its development, you will not 
fail to recognize the same in your life.
43] The soul is also placed in your body shell and as the last spark of intelligence a ray of My love is laid; 
you too are awakened from the beginning as a child to the old man by the warmth of love, driven to higher 
development, surrounded by the outside world and have to absorb by yourself what is suitable for you and 
excrete what is unsuitable; you too, as physical beings, are urged to drive the roots downwards because of 
natural needs, worldly worries; for you the outside world is also the night, but an inner urge, the impulse of 
the spirit, drives you upwards, towards the spiritual, and if you also wanted to deny the spiritual, this urge is 
not silent, it is the instinct of conscience.
44] This is the way forward in the plant, so with the human being; through aberrations, suffering and 
struggles I draw you to spiritual plants for My garden.
45] Many fall under the influence of passions, such as plants and flowers under the influence of weather 
influences. Just as these then, among other forms, follow a different destiny that is intended for them, as do 
the lost children of the spirit - they must enter the longer path of purification in order to postpone the 
attainment of the flower, the bridal state, the crown of all activity and struggle, which others were more 
likely to achieve, postponing it for longer periods of time.
46] Therefore, My children, take the flowers or plants as an example; eliminate all the coarser elements, 
spiritualize the absorbed! Through your purification you also spiritualize your surroundings and move others 
with you towards a better being. 
47] Up! My children! After the delicate leaves and stems, after which the flower of a calm, God-given 
consciousness grows, the heavenly peace grows; and just as the flower joyfully and gently moves her little 
head and sways in the fragrant airs that surround it, as you do in the higher realm of spirits, where instead of 
the material sun light and warmth, spiritual light, “knowledge and spiritual warmth”, love gently surrounds 
you!
33
48] Strive for what I have created you to become: My children! Do not let a flower or plant shame you!
49] Just as I once said: "Look at the flowers in the field, they do not work", likewise do not let yourselves be 
seduced by worldly care; give to the world what is the worlds , and to Me what is mine "- become flowers in 
My spiritual garden and you have reached your goal in this world – have arrived at the highest level as 
children of the earth, in order to repeat on the lowest level as spirit children your way through millions of 
heavens and eons of times, always approaching Me - to be able to spiritually repeat the whole process of seed
up to the flower and fruit!
50] Behold, all this is told to you by a flower that you have often thoughtlessly trampled on with your feet.
51] Learn to understand the language of My Nature!
52] Learn to read this tender and gentle scripture with which I, your Creator, Lord and Father, in every grain 
of sand, in every flower, up to the greatest solar worlds, have always written the same words: God is - love!
53] Nature preaches this to you in small and great things.
54] This calls to your heart with every breath. This I send to you in a thousand different forms and words 
through My servants and scribes. 
55] Listen to this great harmony of spheres, this choral song, which sings My praise day and night from 
millions of beings and creations; do not be cold against all these great interpretations, go forward "from night 
to light"! from world to spirit! and become flowers of humility, love and gentleness in My heavenly regions!
56] This alone is the intention or will of your Father with all these words which He continually sends to you 
from His heavens for enlightenment. Pay attention to them! - for they shall lead you, like the seed, "from 
night to light"! Amen.
Chapter 11
A Jacob’s ladder (July 26, 1871)
01] You wish to share this free flight through My creation, which you made a few days ago on My hand, 
with others and to let them feel it, so that they too may get to know my power, My love and their own value.
02] Know that everything that passes through your soul is awakened in you not for you alone, but for a far 
greater purpose, so also this spiritual vision, where you saw the series of steps of all spiritual things up to me, 
now are repeatedly being led before your soul to prove to you and to all what it means – to carry an offshoot 
of Myself, a divine spark within you.
 03] For what use were all the creations with their great wonders to you if you did not possess an intelligent 
spirit capable of comprehending all these things that were seen, what use was the sight of the starry heavens, 
where millions of sister suns send down their light upon your earth, calling out to you:
 04] "We also send our light out to you little worms from an immeasurable distance, but you only notice it 
when your sun has ceased to shine for you! Take this call of ours as spiritual comfort and admonition, and 
thus translate it:
34
05] Even an immense spirit world sends its greetings from afar to you great spirits of divine origin, you - or 
many of you - do not notice and feel this greeting of the spirit world because the world sun is still shining too 
much for them, but when the sun begins to go down, when the void and transient, which reminds you of 
another, higher life, makes itself apparent, when it begins to become night in the worldly heart, then the 
influences of a high spirit world begin to appear like the shimmering stars one after the other in the 
immeasurable firmament, then the voices of the spirits begin to whisper to you, what the stars often tell you, 
that is to say: there is another world, a spiritual world, like a great material infinite world, where the spirits 
are, step by step, gradually approaching their perfection, until in My Spirit Heaven, far beyond all created 
worlds, they will first recognize the right purpose of their life and aspiration”. 
06] The smallest infusion animal urges itself there as well as the greatest angelic spirit, there everything 
finds its conclusion, its material end and its spiritual beginning.
07] There only the right spiritual life begins, in the heaven of all primordial types of creation; from there all 
rays of My divine power and love go forth, far beyond all suns and world systems fertilizing with spirituality,
from there the thought of love goes out, like the electric ray and the fast light in all directions, stimulates, 
incarnates, embodies, spiritualizes, gives birth, educates and develops everything from the smallest atom to 
the greatest world sun according to one and the same plan, according to one and the same law, according to 
the law of love, so that one day it may approach its Creator, understand him, learn to love him.
08] Spirit is everything. Everywhere the spirit is the timekeeper, the supporter, the developer.
09] Bound in the solid matter, it is the sustainer of the stable metabolism, from rigid to liquid, from liquid to 
air-like, from air to gaseous, to the finest volatile etheric particle.
10] In the plant and animal kingdom, it is the spirit that instinctively guides the root to where it finds what is 
suitable for its food and further development.
11] In the animal, the spirit drives to search for food, to build dwellings, to reproduce; and thus, always 
making itself more free, the spirit rises upwards from one step to another, from the first sense of touch and 
lack of free movement to the self-confident notion of being in the last member of all material creations, to 
man, who then, as the first link in a series of spiritual formations, enriched with different faculties (abilities),
carries the whole of creation within him and is the turning point between two worlds, which connects 
material with spiritual.
12] Therefore the different kinds of creatures on all My Worlds, more or less attached to material bodies,
depending on whether they are near or far away from me; different in size, in lifespan and in a gradual 
progression they all return to me, to the creator from whom they emanated.
13] Like the master builder, before his house is finished, only uses raw materials, he must gradually make it 
fit for its purpose through various processes, so that they may be useful to him; likewise the host of creatures 
on all worlds, depending on the world they inhabit, is also partially raw unprocessed building material.
14] As with the wood, for example, which a master builder needs for his purposes, so it is with the people on 
the different worlds.
15] The wood as a raw trunk must first be hewn, given a different shape, cut into beams (as supports for the 
whole building), then the beams must be sawn apart to meet various smaller needs such as slats, boards, 
posts (fasteners), finally the wood is used several times by skillful hands for furnishing the house by means 
35
of handcrafted household appliances, from the first raw resting bench to the finest polished armchair and 
other various objects (all correspondingly spiritualized potency in steps up to the highest, which, as polished, 
like a mirror absorbing and returning all light, can also communicate it to others).
16] This is the case with iron, with stone, where both of them, robbed of their primitive hardness by fire, 
follow the willing hand with a slight flexibility, just as the mortar is also a binding and preservative agent of 
the whole building.
17] So also in My creation everything living, organic and inorganic is divided into millions of needs; but
everything serves only one purpose.
18] The people on all the suns are like wood, iron, stone, they must first undergo all the purification 
processes before they are able to pass into My immediate vicinity, My Spirit Kingdom.
19] Just as thousands of tools and useful things are made from wood, so too is iron, even more so, even to 
infinity, so too is the various stages of men and spirits.
20] Some of them dwell in houses that have not yet been finished, others already occupy better ones; yet 
others live in palaces, and so on until the highest perfection.
21] Everywhere it is the spiritual principle that classifies and organizes everything and thus leads it towards 
development.
22] Already from what I have told you about the sun and your planet (see "The Natural Sun”; “Earth and 
Moon"; "The Fly"), you see - beginning with the meticulous inhabitants of Mercury up to the musical people 
of Miron (Neptune) - a gradual spiritual progression, see already in the sun spiritually superior people with 
more insight into the spiritual creation.
23] That which the inhabitants of Saturn only suspect as a great spirit, the inhabitants of the sun already
know better.
24] So it goes on and on with all the worlds; with all the suns and all the worlds it goes in a gradual 
progression, according to the worlds themselves, with their inhabitants as well; it pushes forward all My
love, and as on each of these millions of worlds, also started from the lowest plant and the animal, the series
of steps goes forward to their world people, just as it then goes upwards from the world people to spiritual, 
higher levels.
25] Do not consider here neither the greatness nor the beauty of the worlds, nor the peculiarities of their 
inhabitants, be it in form or intelligence. All of this corresponds only to the world on which they live, with 
which they also have to stand in a certain analogy (correspondence), considers only their spiritual level, 
which is the determining one. Then see, on your earth you also have enough of examples where the outer 
form does not correspond to the inner, spiritual one. Take only the parrot and other beautifully feathered 
birds of the south, where is the soulful song as an expression of the inner emotional level?
26] The same goes for the worlds. If you could see one of these great worlds with your mind's eye, you 
would suspect a spiritual intelligence in the splendor of colors and beauty of the forms which reign there, 
which should turn the inhabitants of such a world into gods - and yet, seeing these very inhabitants of your 
inner being, they would sink into dust because of the greatness and grandeur of your divine nature, which 
they lack completely, because they have more of dream life; while you, who have been chosen by Me to be 
36
My children, can fly through My vast spaces of creation with a glance like that of the eagle to clearly read 
with an intelligent spark of spirit what I am and what you can become.
27] Countless such worlds circulate in the infinite ether, endowed with beauties which you can never 
comprehend, or even suspect of, seemingly true paradises of eternal peace and bliss; and yet, behind these 
great worlds of light lies spiritual darkness, there is ignorance, not knowing what all this beauty and 
greatness is created for!
28] And here again you see that I am only great in the smallest. Your earth, millions of times smaller than an 
atom of such a world, contains the greatest spirits, harbors the beings for whose sake I became man and even 
had myself killed by them, out of love for them!
29] O understand once and for all what that means, to be those beings in such an infinite creation full of the 
great and sublime, who do not need all these long ways to Me anymore, to be beings with whom I deal 
directly, to teach them, to guide them and while other beings who are just as much in love with Me can only 
suspect, you have the clearest evidence of My existence, of My work and of My continuous blessing.
30] There in those worlds is eternal peace, there is little struggle, but there is also little merit to be human 
there, it is by far easier than wanting to become My child on your earth.
31] Up there, you have to consider, these people live according to what their world spiritually demands of 
them, and from there at most only return to a new, higher or analogous spirit world; but with you it is 
different that you have to fight here, deny yourselves, endure the autumn and yet should not lose trust in me; 
here, where I Myself as creator became man, have given the greatest example of the deepest humiliation,
here you are in a nursery for My great Spirit Kingdoms, for My Spirit Heaven, and as all the vast creation 
with its millions of worlds are readable and understandable to your intelligent eyes in the evening, so the 
whole spirit heaven, its stages, its extent, its bliss, everything is comprehensible and graspable to your spirit 
laid in you by me; all this, which millions of other inhabitants of the world are closed forever and only opens 
up as soon as they also want to go through your way, although often bitter but leading to the supreme bliss.
32] Therefore, now that I have unrolled before your eyes the spiritual image of My material creation, where 
then the never-ending spirit heaven joins it, consider now - what you can become, what you are destined to 
be!
33] So do not let yourselves be deterred by the tribulations of this life! Do not be blinded by the light of the 
world sun! Behold, only when you turn your back on it, when it no longer exists for you, does the world of 
spirits open for you like the starry sky in the evening, in which you can discover as many dwellings and steps
as you can see stars, suns and worlds in the evening, and can assume even more, the light of which does not 
reach your eyes because of too great a distance! Just as many spiritual worlds and stages are waiting for you, 
children, for whom I have suffered, done and created so much!
34] Recognize from the infinite ether My infinite love and from the stars shining towards you every evening 
just as many rays of grace and light paths which all My Beings, whether on short or long paths, will one day 
lead to Me, the Father of all created things! 
35] Not for nothing did I give this picture and insight into My spiritual creation to My secret scribe; now 
written, it will for the time being be a firm witness to his small society and once to all mankind how I led My
children and on what ways and by what means I wanted to show them that it is a great grace to be a man on 
37
this earth, and even a greater grace to be directly led and guided as I have been doing for quite some time
now.
36] Therefore also consider these words well; every evening, looking up to the starry sky as a book of My
love, you shall recall the words: "Lord, what am I that you remember me! And then from all the worlds it 
shouts to you: "Rejoice, thou little man of the earth, what you can become so easily, and all our inhabitants 
envy you. Rejoice and sink down in devotion before your Creator who forgot the Lord in himself and, as 
loving Father of his children, holds out open arms to you” Amen.
Chapter 12
Jacob’s Ladder, continued (July 27, 1871)
01] Yes My children, rejoice over this spiritual level on which I have placed you, and do not immediately 
hang your heads when small odds darken your sense of purpose or individual privations in worldly life 
remind you that this earthly life is of short duration and has no endurance, so that you may recognize from it 
that the urge for the spiritual, for higher, lasting happiness is not in the satisfaction of physical and social 
comforts, but in the satisfaction of the spiritual value of your soul, which thirsts to unite with the spirit laid in 
you by me, to take the place in My spiritual world which until now the Spirit alone had held, but not the soul
until it has attained the baptism of rebirth.
02] When I have demonstrated to you in earlier words My whole creation and its inhabitants in spiritual 
regard how they have to achieve spiritually in different ways their set goal, which for you is significantly 
shortened, it was only to prove to you and to make you understand how much more your zeal should be 
stimulated to satisfy this position in My Kingdom of Spirits and also to use all powers, since the way to Me
is not closed to you, to continue to move forward not shying away from any obstacle, always looking at me, 
to regard everything that you may encounter only as a link in a chain that gradually develops, ennobles you
and already in this earthly life prepares you for the hereafter in such a way that you can accomplish most of it 
more easily here than there, so that you may then immediately prove yourself capable of your higher mission 
without regression.
03] And especially you, to whom I give My light from the heavens with so much care, consider well that I, 
precisely because I am doing this, have so-called special purposes in mind with you apart from the purpose 
of mankind in general.
04] So show yourselves worthy of your mission and My grace; because when I have assigned important 
tasks to you, you also have to consider that in order to become such worthy instruments of My holy will, you
yourselves must first be cleansed, purified and hardened with firm zeal before I can use you as supports for 
others!
05] Therefore, take all the events that happen to you as a school of practice, so that you can first establish in 
yourself what you are supposed to show others, not only in words, but in deeds, namely: that the teaching as 
I have given it to you is the true and only one that can make My children of men - purified spirits and souls!
06] Many of you do not want to grasp this idea; they still want to combine their comfortable world life with 
My Spirituality; they shy away from denial, deprivation, sacrifice; only it is in vain; if you want to become
My children, you must, as I once did, empty the cup of suffering to the last drop! I too have proclaimed to
38
the garden in Gethsemane: "Father, take the cup from me!" I did it when I (momentarily) had to leave My
Love behind me, I had to feel completely My situation as a man (See the word "The Weak One" in the 
Passion Garden), and yet, as much as love only wants to make happy, only to make blessed, there it had to 
deny its basic characteristic, because of a higher purpose, and I drank the cup of suffering to the end.
07] And so any of you also cry out, “Lord, take the cup of suffering from me. And I, the all loving Father 
who only wants to see My children happy, the Father who loves all things, cannot for his own sake cannot 
comply with this desire, must make him suffer for his own betterment and for My great purpose, let him 
empty the cup completely so that he also, like once I myself, after enduring a struggle, gloriously learn to 
bless the hand which has led him from the bitter night of suffering to the bright light of happiness.
08] Of all the kinds of bad conditions that you may encounter, I have also gone through myself; it is for this 
very reason that I became completely human, as you are, so that all possible storms of the world could burst 
over me, so that no one can ever say: "Preaching is easy, but doing it yourself and proving it by deeds is 
difficult!
09] Therefore I went through your whole human life from the cradle on to show you that, if the Spirit is 
strong, he can overcome everything, conquer everything and endure everything, only he must be firmly 
convinced of his mission and spiritual destiny, from which point of view then all the illusions will receive 
their true value and enlightenment.
10] So if you really want to become My children you have to be firmly convinced for the time being that 
you also have to be pure as an example first, but that this "purity" is not possible without washing off the 
mistakes and wrong opinions beforehand!
11] I have the great worlds and their inhabitants before your spiritual eye. You can now see how much you 
are favored, but you can also see that each advantage is only there when you fight to achieve what you are 
aiming for, because if, as your proverb says, the roasted birds fly into your mouth, there is no merit!
12] The achievement is that consciousness which gives the nobility to the soul and whispers to it: I fought, 
but I also won (with the Holy Father's grace).
13] Behold the millions of worlds and their inhabitants, how many would like to fight to attain this, with 
even greater sacrifices than you have to make, and yet, My Fatherly Love, which loves them as much as you,
cannot grant this fight as a whole, but can only allow this transfer to some of them, so that by losing spiritual 
freedom in his world he prefers servitude and the struggle on your world.
14] You are envied by millions and millions of spirits and yet, blind as you want to be, you still do not 
understand what it means to be chosen to be My children!
15] Do not let it become necessary in the other world to once have to proclaim: “Yes, if I had known that, I 
would have acted differently".
16] Should this cry escape one of you in the other world, it will be too late and it can only be reached there 
during long struggles and wanderings, which could have been accomplished here with so little.
17] Therefore, children, wake up! Rise up to me! Listen to the voice of love that flows towards you from all 
corners of creation; turn your backs on the world sun and immerse yourselves in the infinite sea of light of 
the spirit kingdom from which you have come; there lives your Father, there is your future residence and 
39
there one day you will find a solution to all the questions and doubts that seemed to be unsolvable to you 
here.
18] Go there! and you too, like sometimes My scribe, will also be overcome by visions which will give you 
insight into those spheres where only love spreads its gentle light, blessing and soothing everything, and 
from where all the sufferings and ills of this life and other desires of worldly, social and monetary position 
will disappear like nothing in comparison to spiritual enjoyment which raises you far above all this and only 
then makes you feel the power of My love and the high bliss of a consciousness to have finally reached
beyond the waste of this life into the Eden of peace, where no discord interrupts the harmony of the spirit
choirs, and all agree on it and eternally offer Me the hymn of praise of My love, not as creator, not as Lord, 
but as Father.
19] Wake up! That already gentle hints of such bliss permeate your hearts; learn in lonely hours to 
strengthen your spiritual eye so that it can see over, far above all material things, into that spirit world which 
lies partly far from you and yet also, if you wish, very close, in your own breast.
20] Once you have enjoyed such moments of spiritual consecration, then the worldly sun begins already - to 
go to its downfall, and the host of spiritual heavens, like the stars glittering at night, will make you grasp the 
greatness of a future being, the greatness of your actual dwelling place!
21] Thus consider this, act and live accordingly in order to be worthy of Me one day! Amen.
Chapter 13: 
The Creation of the Material and Spiritual World (January 15, 1871)
01] My dear Son, you want to have an explanation from Me of My creation; you want to see, as the smallest 
point in space, the immensity of My kingdom and grasp its greatness, its expansiveness!
02] I could show it to you with My spiritual vision so it would be possible that you could attain a distant 
idea of its greatness; but so, as a finite creature, how shall I make you understand infinity? How shall I show 
you understandably that if you can think of the whole material creation in all its dimensions (where the last 
star or the last sun of a system is shimmering, another one has its beginning again from a new distance) that -
where all matter has its end, only the eternal spirit kingdom begins?
 03] How can you grasp all this? Consider your question to me well! I know you are basing yourselves on it 
by confronting Me saying: “Yes, I may be a tiny worm, but My spirit, My soul, they are not, they carry a 
spark from you, and by means of this spark I dare to ask the question as a child of an infinite father, and say: 
Father! To fully understand you, please show Me your power, show Me your house where I am to live and 
enjoy the bliss that you have given to the children who love you and follow your teachings! 
04] I will also answer this question and say to you: look, My dear Son, you have attacked the matter on the 
right point. As a man you are too insignificant, but as a spirit you are big enough to penetrate with Me into 
the deepest areas of creation, to see miracles there and also, by your spirit descending from me, are able to 
comprehend the why. And so I will take you into My spiritual arms and fly with you through the
immeasurable spaces where no human eye has yet sent its rays and where millions of wonders of creation 
and countless creatures sing an everlasting praise and song of thanksgiving to Me, the Lord and Creator, as 
the great spirit.
40
05] I will lead you into those spaces where only a spiritual eye can measure the distances, because your way 
of counting has long since ceased.
06] I will lead you to the fountain of life, from where all life flows out for the material world, and from there 
I will again lead you with light and speed of thought to the outside of the Great Creator, where the visible
ends and only the spiritual, still by far greater cosmic man begins!
07] You shall enjoy with Me the idea of My greatness and, by the way, you shall sink astonishingly into the 
dust before My other main characteristic, humility!
08] So come then, rise up with me! Leave the earthly transmission of transient desires and sorrows and 
follow Me in the never withering flower garden of your heavenly Father, who wants you to experience the
pleasures there of which no mortal man has ever known. (See in "The Twelve Hours" the 11th and 12th 
hour).
09] Here you can see the great material cosmic man in front of you, surrounded by dense ethereal skin, as a 
finite in the infinite. You can see how he continues his flight with the speed of thought in the immense space 
around a center unknown to him; you see how he absorbs all that is viable through his skin pores with all his 
organs from the eternal primeval ether and also returns the consumed to the ether; you see his form or shape, 
which is like yours.
10] Now you ask, why does he have this form?
11] Well, here we want to discuss not only the explanation of what exists but also the why, and so follow 
Me in the flight of thought, as well as in space, and see that consequence (perseverance) or implementation 
of a basic principle is the first foundation of My divinity and should also be the first support of man as a 
spiritual being.
12] Look now, My Son, the human form, or actually My own, I have established as the first basic type in all 
creation and accordingly created all beings, from the smallest infusoria to man gradually developing this 
form.
13] Whatever animals and living beings there are in the whole material universe, all of them carry, at least in 
one or the other part, resemblances of the basic forms of a human body as a basic idea in themselves, which, 
according to their peculiarity and the way of life intended for them, are then further refined, better perfected, 
and advanced to a higher level until, after a long struggle, the culmination point, the human form is attained.
14] Apart from this struggle of all created things according to this form there is another main factor in all 
creation, which I have established as such and without which nothing could exist; it is the principle of selfpreservation. For only once did I create and think of the material world in its entire range and scope, and 
there also its farther independence was determined by self-preservation, until, as in the small so in the great, 
the bodies and worlds and all created beings are developed so far that they then would be suitable for a 
higher level where the first given body has fulfilled its mission and, having reached the end of its existence 
with its dissolution, makes the first step to a better being.
15] In order to establish this self-preservation, I had to give him, in addition to the outside of every being, an 
inner organization which fulfils all the conditions so that the consumed is excreted and new things are 
ingested for it; through which exchange life is conditioned and further self-preservation is accomplished.
41
16] Well, here you see why everything that lives has inner organs and parts that have all been created for 
this process.
17] What we see in the smallest detail, you also see again in the greatest, where the cosmic man circles, My
or also your form, but only in dimensions which can be grasped by a high spirit.
18] Analogous to the order of preservation of a smallest being, it also has its inner arrangement, which, like 
humans, is also designed and built to replace consumption with something new.
19] In him, too, a heart beats and pulsates that preserves everything and drives its life forces out into the last 
solar systems of the outer skin; he has his lungs to transform the essential substances, like the human air, into 
his own useful elements; He also has all the organs like you, and in these organs there are also beings living, 
as in those of your body, which for your eyes is also an entire world of invisible animals; similar to your 
body, all these organs also constitute a whole in the great cosmic man; everywhere the same order prevails as 
in the human organism.
20] Beings that live in the organ of the corresponding liver or lung of the cosmic man cannot be formed into 
heart or kidney people. They are happy in their existence and await their transformation there, like all created 
beings after discarding their bodies, in order to be transferred into similar organs of the great spiritual man, 
or to come closer to their destiny in the more noble organs of the great cosmic man.
21] Now I see in you the question arise: What is the difference between our bodily functions and the task of 
these solar complexes, which present here the heart, there the lungs and there the head?
22] Then I say to you: the same task as in the human body. Here the heart drives the blood impregnated with 
new life forces through the arteries and veins, there the great solar system, which is equal to the heart, is 
equipped with just the means to communicate the new life principle absorbed from the ether by means of its 
organs to the other parts of the great cosmic man and thus to sustain him. The lungs, other suns and planetary 
systems of various natures, receive the cosmic man’s blood impregnated with the consumed, and through the 
influence of the immeasurable ether and its inhalation, they also turn the consumed into living again and 
expel the useless through exhalation, namely into the great ether space through mouth and nose like you.
23] The large and small channels, as arteries, veins and capillaries that traverse the human body, are 
represented there by subordinate systems and comets; especially the latter are the Light and Life Carriers, 
who, while busy with their own formation, carry out the material of life to the outer skin of the great cosmic 
man through their elongated paths and either digest it again themselves or return it to the corresponding 
organ or Sun.
24] That is why they are free from the force of attraction, not like the planets, which forces them to orbit 
around their suns in short orbits without being able to escape from them. The comet floats freely, as a future 
world forming, through all world systems, receiving from them what is appropriate to its self. Nothing stops 
it, it carries out his purpose until it too has become heavier and denser, shortens its course and joins a solar 
system as an orbiting planet or independent sun, where it also goes through its period of development, until, 
after its inner activity has expired, the dissolution also assigns it higher tasks.
25] Thus you see all organs fulfilling their functions, the brain grasps the spiritual, passes it on to the beings 
living in its organs, and these spread it through the nerves or spiritual conductors into the other solar systems 
and universes.
42
26] The eye looks out into the expanse of infinity, sees the goal from afar and recognizes its destiny as the 
eye of the world and communicates it to the brain; it is the mediator of the inside with the outside; the brain 
receives the impressions from the outside through the eye and communicates them to the beings living in the 
whole organism.
27] The ear hears the great world harmonies, delights the spiritual inhabitants of its organ through them. 
What is effected in the eye by light replaces sound in this solar complex; and just as in the human body one 
organ is always in connection with the other, so it is also in the great cosmic man, where a spiritual pleasure 
in one organ is communicated to and felt by the other.
28] In the eye, the seven colors break in its light and visual process; there, in those constellations, these 
colors are distributed into entire world systems, one representing the blue color, the other the red color, and 
so on. There in the great cosmic man there are suns of different colors, like the colors of the rainbow.
29] The people themselves are there in color, though to a lesser degree in their eyes, formed accordingly. 
There are wonders of size and intensity you little creatures have no idea about. So in the organ of the ear, 
where the harmonies and the law of it are so widespread and perfected that your way of making music cannot 
bear any comparison with it. These beings therefore enjoy blisses of which you have no knowledge.
30] In the brain complex with its large central suns all is light, all wisdom, there man understands and sees 
the whole cosmic man, knows his mission, also knows Me as the greatest spirit. Like phosphorus in the 
human brain, in this system everything is light, everything is clear, so that shadows are completely unknown.
31] In the heart, the seat of life, everything is in motion and drives the great machine; the most beautiful, 
sublime feelings of bliss are permanent. Everything knows My love and My grace and knows why they are 
there and what their tasks are, and especially the small stimulating nerve of the cosmic heart is also the place 
where nearby your solar system is situated.
32] All organs, including elimination and procreation, have the same purpose as the corresponding ones in 
the human body; they belong to the excretion of the consumed and must be present just as well as those for 
ingesting, if a self-preservation of the great man of the world is to exist. The analogies of the inhabitants of 
these immense worlds are also as diverse as their own organs. It would be futile to try and explain them to 
you.
33] Just look at the earth, where is the beginning, where is the end of its creations, and so it is everywhere.
An infinite God can only create what is infinite, so do not demand a description of world suns, their sizes, 
their suns and planets circling around them, of which there are an immense number, their sister suns with 
different colors, their inhabitants and creatures, where no writing material would suffice to describe only the 
smallest world, let alone those worlds where your light, known as the fastest movement, would be but only a 
slow and short movement.
34] These details can only be grasped with spiritual eyes and thought with spiritual thoughts. As long as you 
live in this earthly body, understanding of these things is impossible for you. There in the hereafter, provided 
with increased spiritual insight, you will understand more easily what I am not able to explain here. It is 
sufficient for you to know that everywhere your eye or thought could reach, the human form has been 
established as the only dominant form; but it goes without saying that in regards to size and color this must 
of course be different according to the corresponding worlds. But everywhere My love and My grace has 
been active to prepare the creatures whom I called into being for the greatest possible happiness, of which 
43
they are capable of on their points of view and which happiness is then increased from step to step until the 
last one to become My child crowns all troubles and struggles with My presence.
35] According to all this you may comprehend what I have chosen you for and what a great mission and 
ability I have provided for you.
36] Millions of beings lack this grace, that you enjoy to the fullest extent, and while this great number of 
created beings knows Me only through My works or through teachers, which I send into their realms to guide 
and lead them, I descend here on your little earth to give you with My own mouth, through My scribe, bread 
from the heavens.
37] Just think what that means! Think of the greatness of My creation, of My own power and promise, and 
compare your insignificance, and you must sink down into nothingness before the grace I am giving you 
where you should really proclaim: "Father and Lord! What am I, that you remember me!" and once you first 
consider the sacrifices I made for you to make you what you are to be in relation to the nerve structure of the 
cosmic heart itself; that is: the moving universal driving force of all My material creation!
38] Since in the human body even the smallest cell tissue or capillary vessel does not exist in vain, since 
everything only has to contribute to the preservation of the whole in its own way, not even the smallest fiber 
of the human body is forgotten in the great cosmic man, and everything can be found there reproduced 
accordingly; Only you do not have to think of the functions of the great cosmic man in the same way as those 
of your body, but in analogous correspondences, where whole solar systems express and perform exactly 
what one or the other organ in the human body also has to do in relation to the whole in terms of their 
position, nature and number. - For example, the spleen is the electric furnace, where the blood is revived 
after its short circulation. Also in the great cosmic man the corresponding solar universe with its thousands of
suns and planets is nothing else but the great distributor of life to many other worlds dependent on it, which 
these again, gifted with more power and light than it is possible to consume, distributes it again, through vast 
light-spaces, to other suns and worlds. These then, according to their position to the whole, process what is 
suitable for them and also give the impulse to thousands of different processes through their magneticelectrical emanation and so on, until everything goes through its cycle and what has been used up is returned 
to the ether by means of the elimination organs.
39] This is the process for preservation of the great cosmic man, who through his rapid movement in infinite 
space awakens the life elements lying within the ether by means of friction caused by his own movement, 
and then transfers them through his countless absorption organs, like the pores in the human skin, to the inner 
organs for further use and to his own future existence.
40] Look now, My dear son, so awakening and giving life, our cosmic man floats for eons and eons of time
periods in infinite space with no boundaries, until he too has worn himself out internally and externally and 
is approaching his decay. And what happens to the human body after its death also happens there. Also he 
(the great cosmic man) will be dissolved into other elements; other products will be formed from his remains, 
which again, as is the case with the decaying human bodies, will lead to new creations.
41] The matter from which he was created will have to undergo a process of separation. The spiritual will 
enter into spiritual associations and the material into material, where each one carrying the structure for 
future self-preservation in itself, will then start anew a great course of evolution and will organize itself again 
into the shape of the human body, only with the difference that as in the human body the earthly organs
44
relate to their future spiritual ones, so also in the great cosmic man these are represented in spiritual 
correspondences. 
42] And so, out of the demise of the present cosmic man another emerges who, composed of finer spiritual 
elements, will again be a new cosmic man; but everything in it, its inhabitants and otherwise living beings, 
will be of a higher spiritual nature.
43] That which in the body of man was the imprisoned soul and the spirit as a guide that will be the impulse
in the cosmic man which drives all material creation towards its redemption and everything spiritual towards 
its spiritualization.
44] Look at the great cosmic man, all the suns form his inner being; all light flows as a living fluid through 
its vast spaces. Like the blood in the human body, it carries it wherever it is needed; develops heat, the heat 
dissolves, retains the beneficial and expels the unnecessary. The latter, driven by the power of repulsion, flies 
through space, unites with other kindred, is again penetrated by the illuminating light and creates something 
new for other solar worlds; and thus the useless of one transforms into a blessing for another.
45] Thus it continues through infinite spaces of time, where millions of years are a negligible period; always 
renewing, always forming, always destroying; and out of all this activity, forming and destroying, the 
spiritual bound in matter develops to higher levels. Always higher and higher it refines itself from potency to 
potency, becomes purer, more spiritual, more divine, until it passes as divine spiritual into the infinitely
greater spirit cosmic man and can find its use there for the time being on the lowest level, from which then an 
even higher stage begins, which rises up and up - to me, to My kingdom, to My heavens of the highest 
spiritual rest and the highest eternal bliss.
46] That this striving for spiritual power bound in matter continues until everything is released, and just as in 
man the bones change over time from flexible, elastic cartilage to rigid limestone, similarly in the great
cosmic man, until the world systems corresponding to the human organs have been exhausted, everything
living, active, receptive to light and heat have escaped and only what has become, as it were, a hard stone has 
remained.
47] When, after infinite periods of time, this case will have occurred, then the organism has ceased to be; the 
reproductive power of the lungs, the caustic excretions of the liver, the excretions exhausted, the procreation 
of new worlds, everything has been accomplished, the pores of the dense etheric skin of the great cosmic 
man are open, the ether penetrates and leaves again on the opposite side without having achieved anything, 
no organ absorbs its elements, no light greedily consumes its life-giving substances, it bounces off the 
calcified walls of the suns and worlds, life has escaped and found refuge in higher spiritual spaces, where 
death has never reigned and only eternal light, eternal love and eternal life has established itself.
48] When this state has occurred, then the great cosmic man will be dissolved by My mighty will; he 
approaches his transformation like the human body, and from the rigid, calcified, lifeless rock, like the 
phoenix according to an old worldly legend, a new, more beautiful, more spiritual world emerges again, 
which contains everything that the former cosmic man possessed, all his organs, all its functions, but finer, 
more spiritual. A new gradual creation begins, life and warmth flows again into the newly conscious cosmic 
man; the suns shine, the earths again happily circle around them in their productive spiral dance, and new 
beings, new creatures with likewise more spiritual bodies, begin their new course of life, where then death 
and destruction no longer has to serve as a necessary basic principle as a basis for a new creation, where then 
45
only a gentle transition from one stage to the other marks the progress, where the material ends and the 
spiritual world begins.
49] There life begins in the great spirit man, there the former, now spiritualized cosmic man moves around 
My central sun shining in the deepest background, or the heart of the whole spiritual world; now absorbs not 
the ethereal but the spiritual through his new skin, thus spiritualizing his inner being, which then again 
gradually dissolves in its individual corresponding organs of the spiritual large cosmic man.
50] Just as the cosmic man flies through his path in the ether, struggling for spiritualization, so there are the 
etheric, in spiritual correspondence, millions and millions, which have all undergone similar processes in 
higher stages and still continuously undergo and spiritualize again forming individual organs of the great 
spirit-man, who also moves on in the vast infinite spaces, absorbs his own life principles for self-preservation 
from the surrounding finer, more spiritual ether and thus founds and maintains an eternal progression, an 
eternal transformation, new creation, and new bliss of the spirits living on such worlds.
51] In the spirit man the purpose of life of all created spirits is to guide the inferior, to lead them, to perfect 
their places of residence and thus to bring their worlds and their souls ever closer to Me. And as in the 
spiritual cosmic man the creation and education never comes to an end, so there is no goal set for the activity 
of all spirits there either; they can and must always work, partly on their own, partly with other beings, and 
so help to fulfil My plans.
52] And behold, when I created this great spirit world with its immense expansion, when I gave these great 
powers to the spirits in that time, I placed the greatest spirit, born of me, like wisdom out of love, like self to 
charity, out of Me into the vast creation; gave him all spirit worlds, enabled him to work and create, gave 
him the name "light bearer or Satana" in the heavenly language of the spheres. And he, conscious of his 
tremendous power, took over, his self-love blinded him, and he enticed millions of spirits to fall away and 
thus became My worst opponent with them. His gentle light of love reddened to a fire of wrath and so he 
together with his spirits who fell away with him is the one who strives for My power, wants to turn My love, 
grace and mercy against everything created into anger and hatred of Me and then trample down every 
dissolving breath of My love with mockery and scorn. 
53] So he was banished from the great kingdom of the spirit-man, from My kingdom of heaven, or in other 
words, he banished himself from it because he did not like the prevailing air of peace and love there; he fled 
far out into eternal infinity. And so also he, although in opposition of me, only has to fulfill My purpose, so I 
created a material world from his and his spirits substances, clothed him and his ones there in matter, then 
dissolved into small particles, in order to, even if not completely, be able to return to me.
54] This is the law of the dissolution of matter, which has to give up little by little, which voluntarily did not 
want to submit to My will. And so Satan himself is banished with what remains of him after his 
materialization, on and in the earth, as the place of residence, where I had already determined eons and eons 
of years ago to accomplish the great work of humiliation and redemption for all men and spirits. And exactly 
there, where I want to give the most blessings and the greatest graces to most of them and spread them out 
from there, also he is to have the greatest power to seduce My children to become like him, as much as it is 
possible for him, so that just out of this struggle against and with him, the most glorious flowers and spirits 
for My Kingdom will emerge and so, instead of working against me, he will have to help My children to the 
greatest victory, to the greatest happiness.
46
55] Thus Satan, free as I created him, only has to work for Me and not for his plans and help to promote the 
great process of spiritualization of all material things.
56] In the spiritual great man of creation the great organizing and creation always lives and weaves on, 
there, as in the cosmic man, the spirits also live according to the organs of the human body in the heavens 
corresponding to the organs; everything there is different from that of a man of the world. What is expressed 
in him in the form of matter lives and exists there in the spiritual; there the coarsest matter is light and the 
finest spirit.
57] Just as the eye of the cosmic man, a great sun and complex of worlds radiating far out into the ether 
sends its rays to absorb from there the material for life for the cephalic nerves or the spiritual worlds of 
wisdom, so the spiritual eye of the great spirit-man is the luminous one of love, which receives the most 
delicate elements from the Infinite Light of Grace in itself in order to transmit them to his great brainnervous system or wisdom heaven, where creation, its origin, its purpose and My Will is well understood by 
all spirits and angels of wisdom. Likewise every other organ of the spiritual man carries out its assigned 
destiny, and the spirits living there accordingly have their purpose and their happiness in him.
58] In My Spirit-Creation man love and wisdom are the main substance, just as in man blood and air and in 
the cosmic man light and warmth.
59] Love is the first factor of movement in spiritual life, accompanying it - wisdom. Love stimulates, 
wisdom illuminates - in the cosmic man light, and warmth expands. Or in the human body - the heart blood 
revives, and in the short blood circulation of the liver it excretes bile, which then as an exciting principle 
again causes the separation process in the digestion, as in the cosmic man the decomposing warmth and in 
the spirit man the explanatory wisdom.
60] He who then pays homage to one or the other alone, misses his mission. Love alone is devastating and 
so is the wisdom that will reach to My limits; light (intense) is dazzling and warmth igniting. Blood 
circulation without replacement of the rejected elements with new ones has no purpose, as does bile without 
the digestive process.
61] My basic attributes are thus represented everywhere, and even on My descent to your earth, where I did 
the greatest work for matter and the spirit world, for a few moments My love separated from wisdom; The 
latter descended to you and taught you the former and sealed their teaching and its correctness that love 
without wisdom and wisdom without love cannot exist, with the greatest act of humiliation that a God could 
carry out.
62] Through this great act of humiliation on My part, the whole spirit world was made aware of the right 
standard of its sacrifices and denials, the way to Me was opened to all spirits; and since that time they have 
all been enlivened by a different spirit than before, namely not the fear of My power, but the love for Myself; 
before they saw the Lord in Me and now only the father!
63] Since this act My whole creation shines in a more beautiful light than before. Adoring, worshipping 
spirits once fell down before My Throne out of awe and silently worshipped My greatness; now everything 
crowds joyfully to Me, the Father, who now also feels the whole bliss of His creation twice - He feels it as 
powerful Creator and Lord and feels it by seeing His own feeling gratefully reflected in the heart of His 
children.
47
64] Thus (and through this) the whole creation of worlds and spirits has become a true triumphal song for 
My heart. I also did not come now in vain, I too have created organs for Myself for My love in which My
striving and working receive back again the reverberation of My joy in the eternal thanksgiving song of My
children.
65] Thus this creation has its infinitely eternal purpose; eternally renewing itself, it prepares for Me and for 
the ones who are mine an eternal happiness and a lasting bliss.
66] Eternal happiness for My children; for they find material for activity, material for admiration and 
material for worship; and I Myself find material for never-ending fatherly love, material for new satisfaction 
to see My plans and purposes fulfilled, and material for the further creation and eternal happiness of My
children.
67] Love as light, like the blood in the human body, runs through the veins of the spiritual and material 
world man, like the human body, spreading salvation, blessing and life everywhere; Wisdom enlightens My
wonders to the inquiring spirit; warmth excites the resting matter, stimulating it to transformation, the bile 
ignites in the stomach pulp and separates good from bad. So everywhere is the same change, the same
activity and the same striving.
68] What My highest angels and spirits clearly see before them spiritualized in the great cosmic man, the 
suns and world dwellers of the material world man suspect and seek in the research of matter.
69] Up there, where death has its landmark in the eternal light, love and spirit realm, there is bliss, is eternal 
exchange of all that has been created and perceived; there only love reigns combined with wisdom; there My
children live only the joyful life, which is promised and prepared for all who live according to My teachings 
and examples.
70] In the cosmic man there are countless men and spirits waiting for redemption; they all go towards the 
process of transformation to the spirit kingdom, but only slowly. No being on any world or sun can boast of 
having this advantage like you, you tiny inhabitants of this earth, this little grain of sand in the universe.
71] On none of these great bodies have I personally been as I have just been on your earth, everywhere I 
have only sometimes shown Myself as Lord and Creator, guiding My creatures or teaching them through My
spirits. Only here on this vain lump of solid, evil matter, the banishment place of My greatest adversary, did I 
perform the act of My greatest humiliation - and your greatest exaltation.
72] O consider this step! Compare yourselves with all other beings living in the wide space of creation, 
compare yourselves with those living in the spirit-man; what privilege is given to you by this step from Me; 
and now by the grace of direct communication where I reveal everything to you, making My creation clear to 
you and letting you look into the secrets of My Power and My Love that have never been revealed by 
anyone, not even the highest angels.
73] And how do you behave against it! How cold, how heartless, driven in part just out of curiosity, you are 
impatient for new messages and forgetting that every word from My Mouth is a stream of spiritual light that 
is far beyond all conceivable distances from the center of My heaven, from the center of My Heart and My
Fatherly Love to enlighten you, warm you, and draw you closer to Me.
48
74] Understand for once how it benefits My father's heart when I see that My words are understood as I give 
them to you, when I see how My great spiritual heaven is reflected in your hearts, when I see that all My
words, all My material and spiritual creations are understood or at least suspected by you.
75] For whom then did I create these countless wonders, these countless light and heat carriers, the great 
worlds and suns; for whom did I create My spirit heavens with all their never-ending pleasures, where one 
minute of eons abolishes ages of enjoyment on other suns and worlds. For whom I created all this, all that 
again in figurative form expresses Myself, so that you are also to see and recognize figuratively Him who 
wants to press all of you to the Father's Heart; for whom then did I create all this, direct and guide it, put into 
everything the instinct of self-preservation, so that nothing passes which could once bring joy to My children 
or would have squeezed out a joy or a tear of thanksgiving at the sight of them! For whom else did I create it 
but for you whom I redeemed and raised through My greatest humiliation. 
76] O consider all this! Consider when you fly through the immeasurable creations and the infinite space in 
your thoughts; Consider, He who created all this, It is He Who wants nothing in return, but only the love of 
His child for Him, the Father!
77] Where is there on your earth a father capable of such sacrifice as I have proved to you? -and what do I 
ask?
78] In two laws I have written it with great flames on the tablets of creation of My spiritual and material
kingdom:
79]"Love God above all! and your neighbor as yourselves". 
80] You have a brief but great sense of the many words. Execute these two Love Commandments of your 
Father in heaven, and He will prepare for you blessings no human eye has ever seen and no human breast has 
ever felt.
81] Here you have a brief interpretation of this long word. The creation of the great cosmic man, the creation 
of the Great Spirit man, all this collapsed into chaos, would be without purpose or reason, would lack love.
82] Love, light and life, three living words of My creation; take them to heart! Without love - no light, and 
without light no warmth!
83] Where in your life of deeds these three words are not established, is hatred, darkness and death!
 84] Love Me! Enlighten your heart! and warm your neighbors! and all creation rejoices for you; for with 
these you have conquered the Father's Heart, you have lifted yourselves up to be His children and have taken 
hold of heaven!
85] Consider this and fully recognize the importance of My communications! Amen.
Chapter 14
The Egg (April 12, 1871)
01] Here, My children, I now want to show you again how in a single form of an object there is far more 
spiritual and how the content of this egg mentioned above is spiritually related to My other creations, and 
49
also, if you could understand the language of the spirit, it would tell you far more than what the scholars and
chemists have so far revealed.
02] Well, let us begin with its form and look a little closer at it, so that you may already see a light rising 
there, which reaches far beyond the visible horizon of your sphere and leads down to the deepest life of your 
soul.
03] Look, the egg is known to you in the form of an elongated, flattened circle, which form is more rounded
or more pointed in the various genera of eggs.
04] This form of the egg comes close to a mathematical line known to you, and you know it by the name of 
ellipse or oval. Well, this line, which you also, at least those who have penetrated a little more into the laws 
of arithmetic (mathematics) can calculate, whose exact construction you know, of which you also know that 
in this form worlds revolve around worlds, suns revolve around suns, which you have heard from 
astronomers and mathematicians, I have to tell you, you still do not know the real meaning, namely the 
spiritual of this form!
05] Now see, if you want to symbolize infinity, you usually choose the form of a circle as a symbol for it; so 
a circle, a physical ring or a sphere would be near to infinity in your terms, because there is nowhere a 
beginning, nowhere an actual end.
06] So much for human terms. But according to the concepts of the spirit or according to My concepts
infinity is not expressed in the least with the circle, simply because in a circle as well as in a ring or in a 
sphere all parts of the outside protrude equally far from its center, which is not the case spiritually ('not the 
case' is an addition), where I am the center and the spiritual and material world which surrounds Me is not 
everywhere the same distance away from me, but gradually depending on the development of the spiritual 
elements the one more, the other less comes to stand near me, therefore an ellipse or an oval rather describes 
the spiritual concept of infinity and the whole universe.
07] The oval line also has no end, only the difference is that the oval as a line or body has two mathematical 
circle-central points and a center which does not protrude equally from all sides but from the longer ones 
less, and from the shorter ones more.
08] Now, to explain this figure or form spiritually to you, I want to tell you that in the first period of creation 
of the spirit and matter world the spirits were placed far out of Me into infinity, so that they were not forced 
by My influence to act as I wanted; they had to be free without the least dependence.
09] But as soon as the consciousness in them began to awaken, as soon as the dispute between free will and 
obedience became apparent, then the same thing that happens with a material object was formed, on which 
two different factors of force act at the same time, that is, the position of the spirits around their center, 
around me, was determined according to the magnitude of the influence of these two forces; as with a body 
according to the laws of nature, where it is attracted by one force and torn away by the other, following 
neither one nor the other completely, it takes the middle path between advancement and circular motion, 
which path is finally not the circle, but similar to the oval form or the ellipse.
10] So also the position of the spirits towards Me was expressed according to their more or less obedience 
and free life in an elliptical form, where I was not in the center, but in one of the, as you say, focal points 
from where I set the spirit worlds out into infinity, which then gradually return to Me again, spiritually 
50
corresponding almost to the form of an egg where the distant circle is the larger and the circle closer to Me is 
the smaller. 
11] Your astronomers designate the planets and partly also the comet orbits in the form of the ellipse; only 
these orbits are more similar to the shape of an eggs; just as the planets, the further away from their center, 
traverse their orbits slower, and near the sun must move faster around their ruler and mother.
12] This form of the egg is one of the main and primary forms of My creation; everywhere it is expressed, in 
the mineral, plant and animal realm.
13] The reason for the principle of attraction is hidden everywhere, which attracts the coarser parts more and 
the lighter ones less.
14] Even the forms of the worlds, suns and planets were formed according to this principle; there is nowhere 
a sphere in the purest sense, only ovals in different forms; and although other forms also exist in the material 
world, their smallest atoms, of which they are composed, are again only ovals or ellipses, and why?
15] Because exactly this form corresponds to My idea of creation and, spiritually founded in Myself, as a 
characteristic of Me is imprinted in all products and beings.
16] As a type of me the oval form, namely spiritual, is understood as infinity embodies or vividly expresses 
it as My second self in a center, and where the second center or the second focal point of the spiritual oval 
further away from Me is not able to exert such a great attraction as My spiritual self, but still has influence on 
coming and going.
17] There in his proximity (Satan's) everything moves around him, but instead of completing the circular 
movement, it moves away, and is irresistibly drawn to me, the first focal point around which everything 
wants to gather.
18] Thus, in ellipses or oval forms, the spirit-material creation stands around its creator; keeping this form as 
a prototype everything is formed in it again from this (original) form, the plants, their leaves, the animals, 
their individual parts, bones end and connect in ovals (also the cross section of the long bones and the 
branches and stems are ovals, and these bones are thus only very elongated egg forms), even the whole 
figures of animals and humans can be enclosed spiritually in elliptical forms, where the heart of one and the 
procreative parts of the other focal point, or the former spiritual, the second materially forms the reproductive 
point, which is necessary for the existence of the whole.
19] Your head has an elliptical or oval curvature, inside it, as in the face of man himself, the most beautiful 
form is the oval. Any form that can be called spiritually sublime or beautiful consists of parts of ovals, but 
not of parts of circles.
20] Everywhere the basic principle of My being shines through, a ruler surrounded by His creation ("of His 
creation" is inserted), ordered according to the moral spiritual gravity, in the midst of His universe! How 
everything crowds against me, is trying to get near me, because there is only love, joy and bliss, so also, if 
you would be able to examine all oval forms in creation, to see there again the same in the greatest as in the 
smallest, namely that I as God and Creator do not need many forms, but only one is sufficient, from which I 
then build up worlds and spiritual and material world-men, who because they are all built according to one 
principle, also all have to return again to the founder and builder!
51
21] The egg is the birthplace of many physical beings; everything that lives, or at least most of it, is born of 
the egg, which in its interior is again formed, built like the Great Spirit and the material cosmic man. For 
from the egg of a small animal to the great worlds and spirit people, the same principle of its construction, 
the same analogous elements and the same final result exists.
22] In the egg is, for the time being, the hard, calcareous shell which, wherever this form occurs, is the 
outside which describes and holds together the inside as separate from the whole rest of creation as 
something that exists in itself. This solid shell is the ethereal outside, which also separates the great worlds 
and spirit people from the general ether. Then comes a finer skin, which prevents the liquid of the egg from 
penetrating and decomposing the outer shell. This finer skin is also the finer ether in the Great Spirit and 
cosmic man, which surrounds all worlds and, as in the egg as liquid, condenses in the ether then as 
atmosphere of the individual solar systems and the suns and planets circling within them.
23] The egg yolk, again separated from the rest of the liquid by another skin, is the closer, denser layer of air 
necessary to the worlds for their further existence in the great worlds and spirit people, where everything is 
in dissolved state, which then constitutes the existence itself of the earth and sun bodies by other compounds 
as solid matter.
24] In the midst of the egg lies the actual spiritual fire point of eternal life, which is only awakened by 
warmth (like love), which then builds up the surrounding substances to its embodied, individual self and thus 
forms from the egg and its liquid and solid matter the creature to whose form the elements lay within it.
25] In the worlds and spiritual man it is also again the inner spiritual part, more like the heart, where the 
impulse to build up, for the preservation of the existing, absorbing the ether and light material and processing 
it, building up the suns and world systems, maintaining them and promoting them further to spiritual 
development, as in the spiritual world man the corresponding heavens, where also I am finally stored in the 
center, around Me the most spiritual, most magnificent creations, I have united spirits and beings, who 
mature everything coming from outside for further advancement, bringing it ever more spiritually closer to 
me, where it is then - as in the cosmic man light and ether, here spirit in the most intense light, there by the 
warmth, here by the never-ending love - is consumed to new, higher creations and so My highest ideal of 
good and beautiful is developed.
26] Thus you see in the egg, for you an insignificant thing, the highest potency, Myself, My creation, the 
gradual progression of the created, My eternal new building, everything that you can imagine, spiritually 
represented.
27] The egg expresses to you in the yolk of My Love, in the egg white of My Spirit Kingdom and in the 
hard shell of the material world. In the center I stand, as life, fire and love, motivating everything towards the 
great transformation. 
28] The spirits surrounding Me seal My heavens from the material world. But also this wall, like the 
calcareous shell of the egg, is broken; the inside of the egg is absorbed, used for a higher birth, and out of all 
the conglomerates of elements of creation, like a phoenix unharmed from the flame, My spiritual, innermost, 
but most sublime world will emerge, where all spirit, light and warmth, or wisdom and love is and always 
will be. 
29] Everything gathers there; I am the focal point, the center, the spark of life which animates everything, 
preserves everything, and even if it changes forms, creates it new again!
52
30] Thus you see in the egg a whole creation, a whole infinity and a spiritual image of yourself and of My
individual self.
31] You too are like the egg, separated from the rest of spiritual life by a shell on the outside, that once 
belonged to the earth, etheric fluids are also moving within you, spiritually your good and bad qualities, and 
in the center, as spiritual driving wheel, the pulsating heart with the eternally never ending spiritual spark out 
of Me!
32] This spark, too, will gradually absorb the other spiritual elements, retain the good and eliminate the bad, 
then when fully mature the earth shell will burst and seek as a spiritual world in miniature, separated from 
the great one, seek its heaven and its delight with me, its founder. 
33] So seek all of you who have received so much spiritual from Me to process it for your own good; seek 
this inner focal point, the love spark from Me, and return it to Me as I once delivered it to you, and you will 
also not reside in the great creation egg in the distance, far away from me, but in the nearest one to My heart, 
from where you can overlook, comprehend and judge the whole universe as far as it is possible for one spirit
- and then you will fully understand in the oval or elliptical form the archetype of the first divine idea on a 
grand scale and in yourselves, in the beauty and grandeur of the spirits and the spirit world, and only then 
will it be clear to you, that only a God can create something so great from such small vain forms and the 
characteristics of them, which in the end only has the purpose of giving His children a concept of His 
greatness, His love, His meekness, and to show them that He is not great in the greatness alone but that he is
greatest in the smallest! Amen.
Chapter 15
The Rain (1) (June 11, 1876)
01] What is the rain? Many will be ready with the answer to this question immediately: "It is a vapor that 
suddenly condenses into water and falls down from the sky."
02] This (superficial) answer suffices most, but not all; for if they look carefully at the effect of the rain on 
humans, animals and plants, they must notice that the water that pours out of the clouds (as rain) onto the 
earth cannot be the sole reason why the whole nature together with all living beings feel strengthened and 
refreshed after a rain and plants of all kinds flourish.
03] It is your opinion that rain, like distilled water, contains the fewest earth elements, and that only the 
moisture or wetness produced by the rain promotes the thriving of the plant world or has a refreshing effect 
on humans and animals by lowering the temperature.
04] Now look, here I will again instruct you in order to work against these old conventional sentences and 
prejudices, so that you may again see here as in the most ordinary things precisely because they appear 
before your eyes almost every day - but something else is hidden which you do not yet know, but which, 
however, because it is necessary for spiritual knowledge, you are to experience with time. So listen:
05] It is true, the rain is, like water, compressed air; but now I ask, what is the air? For if I know what it is, 
what it consists of, I can always assume that, even in other forms, it (the air) will always be the main 
component.
53
06] Well, the air, as it surrounds you, is a sphere of vapor or the "Atmo-Sphere", which, as I have told you 
elsewhere, in a dissolved state contains everything that makes up your globe. (See "Earth and Moon", Part 
1A "The Natural Earth")
07] Whether light or heavy, compressed or even solidified, as for example in ice, this form also always
contains the same components as the air itself.
08] So when it rains, or when the water falls to the earth in the form of drops, it compacts (and purifies) all 
the components of the earth in this form and returns what had previously risen from it as vapors into the air.
Only in the air a decomposition process (with these vapors) was brought about by sunlight, which separated 
the decomposed elements from the new elements to be formed and thus only supplies to the earth what is 
necessary for the survival of the people living on it as well as the animal and plant world, while the coarser 
material must undergo a longer decomposition process, until it becomes suitable to be useful to the earth (and 
its beings) again.
09] But now there is another factor to consider, which is actually the most important in this natural 
phenomenon, the rain.
10] Behold, If you look at the sky and the clouds floating on it, which are already condensed vapors, but 
only in the thermal layer where they are floating, not yet forced to fall down as water in the form of rain, you 
will find that they are constantly in motion and changing shape. Because the currents, which move the same
thing in the oceans and protect it from putrefaction by this movement, these currents are even greater, more 
diverse and more stable in the even lighter element of air, because it only takes a warming or cooling of the 
air layers to produce, what you call “wind”, which from the slightest zephyr to the greatest storm wind, arise 
only because the cooled or heated layer of air wants to balance itself with its environment, according to the 
same law of gravity as water, like even the coarsest bound matter.
11] Now, by the winds, the vapors that have risen into the air are driven from one place to another as clouds,
and so it happens that what has risen in one area in the form of mist in another area as water, as rain falls 
down and thus leads elements from one latitude into another, where they are lacking in coarser form, but can 
be brought there in the form of a mist.
12] From this (as demonstrated) you can see how the rain is not just water, like the one found in your wells 
or rivers, but that the rain as a water from other regions will also have other elements in it than yours,
because this water composed of foreign elements is also the product of other decomposed and used earth 
materials, which for example do not occur at all in your area or, if they were there, would not exist in the 
formation because of the climate and other reasons.
13] Now we go one step further again and say: If these elements falling down from the air as rain are foreign 
to the earth, where they are noticeable, why is this so arranged with you and many other worlds? I answer to 
that: Because every plant, animal or human being absorbs certain elements from its earth and its surrounding 
atmosphere, consumes them for its existence, and if it continues in this way, these would ultimately no
longer exist in and around it.
14] Thus I will show you from your scientific discoveries, where it is proved that man or animal absorbs 
oxygen from the air for his need for life and breathes out carbon as consumed, completely useless for him, 
while the plant world absorbs carbon in the daytime and emits oxygen at night time; you also know that this 
54
exhaled air of living beings no longer contains any elements which would be useful for them, and death 
would be the consequence if no other respiratory agent replaced what was consumed.
15] Well, all this is quite right, and your chemists in this regard have hinted at the great metabolism in My
nature, but they have missed something else, namely that in the consumption of oxygen or in the preparation 
of carbon not all the elements are named which are necessary in the air for the prosperity of all living or 
vegetating beings.
16] There are still thousands of fine particles, which in a dissolved state lie in the air and are bound in the 
earth's crust and below it, and all of which must contribute to it so that everything lives and thrives.
17] But since in every place there is an eternal difference in the consumption of all elements and substances 
in this respect, that are necessary for life in order to always maintain the balance here, so that a country or a 
place always corresponds to the character of its location, the winds from other regions bring impregnated 
clouds, which in their compressed vapors, bring with them what could be lacking in time. And so the rain is 
the connecting means that replaces what has been used up, in light airy elements from far away (which is 
lacking), to promote the prosperity of people, animals and plants, all of whom have no idea that this water 
flowing down in the rain is often taken from regions, where not a single plant, animal or human being 
resembles them, on which the rain now has a refreshing and fertilizing effect.
18] The natural scientists and chemists, as well as farmers and gardeners, say that the thunderstorm rain is 
more fertile than the ordinary (land) rain, because, as with any lightning, it decomposes electricity in the air 
and brings it down to the earth, and this electricity makes plants flourish.
19] Yes, they are right, but they forget that these clouds may come from regions where electricity is always 
prevalent, and from where, carried by the winds, they are led to these areas where they are lacking in 
electricity.
20] As far as flashing and lighting are concerned, this development of electricity is because in some areas 
the lack of this substance has to be replaced quickly, because the wind currents bring the storm clouds, but 
they take them from these areas with the same haste as they brought them. The counter-balancing had to 
happen, and so it took the great elementary factors to accomplish this.
21] So you see how the rain, the equalizer between different degrees of latitude, serves as a means of 
replacing what has been used in the form of evaporation and returning to the earth what it would have lost 
forever if the interaction had not been created by the atmosphere surrounding your earth.
22] From Asia's high mountains or from Africa's sandy deserts or fertile inland areas, where no European 
has yet set foot, the exhalations of vegetation and living beings that you have never known or seen flow 
towards you.
23] The breeze brings you the consumed of a tropical plant world and discharges it above your heads as 
invigorating, fruitful, not suspecting nor knowing that later the vapors of your country will also be carried to 
those distant regions in the great rainy season, in order to bring streams of blessing there, composed of 
elements that were visibly unknown there, but spiritually were always necessary for prosperity. 
24] Thus you may recognize how easily My household knows how to begin, to get rid of what's used up and 
supplement what's necessary, just as the air, which is impregnated with other vapors, also supplies other 
55
elements of life to humans and animals after a rain, which they inhale and process, adding new substances to 
what they have lost and giving them the feeling of revitalization and refreshment.
25] The aromatic vapors of a tropical world, decomposed and transformed by air and light, had to hurry 
thousands of miles to help your flowering plants thrive so that everywhere the cause of delight and 
inspiration for joy prevails in My nature.
26] In the meaningless form of rain, which most men regard only as water, there is so much spiritual, so 
much divinity from Me that if men would only think a little about everything that happens almost daily 
before their eyes, they would have to be astonished how I have thought of everything in such a way to 
sweeten and ease the existence of men, animals and even plants.
27] From the simple drop of rain that quickly falls to earth and, under favorable conditions, shows the 
astonished eye the decomposition into the seven colors in the rainbow, where each brings a different blessing 
to earth - from this they could see what Moses tells in his books, that it is, was and will remain a sign of 
peace, because it shows you that even in the falling rain there is only blessing, only love, but also spiritual 
recognition for those who are able to perceive nature with an open heart and loving mind and do not see 
everywhere only "substances" or "elements" and their interaction.
28] There is something spiritual in everything, for I am also a spirit and therefore cannot have created 
anything else but just the spiritual.
29] Thus also in every process of visible nature a spiritual reason is hidden, and only he can comprehend it, 
who is spiritually educated and spiritually wants to approach me, the creator of all beings.
30] As the rain brings only blessings and prosperity from one region to another, so also "My words" are 
nothing else but spiritual products or elements of Myself, which I formed into human words, like raindrops, 
pouring down on you.
31] Just as the raindrop of thousands of fruitful elements falls on your earth impregnated, so "the Word" is 
also full of blessing in its spiritual meaning, in its depth.
32] The rain comes from foreign lands, and My Word also from others, namely from higher regions, where 
everything exists in abundance that is necessary for spiritual progress.
33] So take the rain as a blessing of your prosperity and My Word as the life-drop of your eternal life, so 
that they too may fertilize your heart with what is mostly lacking there, but is to be had in abundance in My
kingdom, namely: love for Me and your neighbor!
34] As the zones and latitudes of your earth interact with each other, so do you also, but with caution, give 
to your brothers and sisters what they need, i.e. spiritual food: also lead them where I have been trying to 
guide you for a long time so that they too may recognize how active eternal love is, even in the most 
innocent and everyday things, following only the same principle of spreading joy and comfort wherever 
possible. Amen.
56
Chapter 16
The Rain (2) (April 29, 1871)
01] "What does rain mean in spiritual terms - and how do the countless little animals whose home is the 
earth behave?"
02] So you, My daughter, heard a voice asking you in the stillness of night; and since this question has not 
been answered any further, the same voice must now send you the answer through the mediation of its scribe. 
Now look then, My dear child:
03] "The rain - is a blessing." It is a blessing because it comes from above; it is a blessing because it is 
powerful, invigorating and revives everything where it falls and penetrates; it is a blessing, because with it 
the love or materially the warmth is developed, and it is a blessing, a divine blessing because it delights and 
revives everything - and as I once said as Jesus of the sun that the Father in heaven lets it rise over good and 
bad, the rain also drips down over useful and harmful plants in equal measure. As for the little animals in the 
ground, you yourself indicated the answer in your letter when you write: "When I thought about true love, I 
saw many things as sin, which was often regarded as a virtue.
04] You see, My child, the little animals living in the ground, larvae and pupae, which one already develops 
in external life, the others are waiting for development, resembling the small mistakes that man often does 
not regard as a mistake, but even as virtues or good qualities.
05] Now, when the rain falls on the earth and deprives many an animal of its life or its dwelling, mercilessly 
washes them away, then this resembles your heart, onto which also My shower of grace trickles down or, 
with suitable disposition, even flows down in abundance.
06] This rain of grace produces the same result as the rain on the ground. The rain first softens the hard parts 
of the earth; the descending grace must also soften in a heart inclined to My Voice the persistent, accustomed 
bad qualities and desires there. The rain warms the ground, brings life to its vegetation, and allows the roots 
to spread with more strength and elasticity.
07] The rain of grace and love moves the heart joyfully, it becomes soft then happily eliminates these little 
habits and mistakes and revives the good. And how the animals then become active in the ground, partly to 
protect themselves from the water, partly only to be woken up by the water from their hibernation, like the 
hard clod of earth, which they can now break through more easily, so that they can also be exposed to the 
light and the heat of the sun as well as love and the rain of grace in the human heart. He also awakens the 
better and more sublime qualities of human nature, gives them strength to break through the hard shell that 
has drawn the world around them so far, so that they too may guide man to the light of truth and love.
08] What the rain destroys and washes away, what it spoils in animals, their eggs and dwellings, thrives 
again on another side. After a rain, the balance between producers and consumers is restored in the natural 
environment. And after an efficient cleansing of the human heart everything there is balanced again, since 
the coarser has been eradicated, but so much remains that the fight of good with evil does not fall asleep; for 
only struggle requires an active life, because without it there would be no attraction and no "why".
09] In the human heart, as in the ground, the small animals must be stimulated to activity by the rain - the 
good qualities must be able to develop and the bad ones washed away, eradicated, but the still unborn sex of 
the pupae and larvae must also be accelerated in their development by this spiritual fermentation process.
57
10] Also on your heart, My child, My shower of grace has been pouring down for a long time; even with 
you it becomes active in your heart. Certain little peculiarities, like the little animals of the earth, hid 
themselves from this grace and love water, they did not want to wash away from you, they did not want to be 
chased away. Only the rain did not stop, yes it multiplied, and see, My dear child, now that the bottom of 
your heart has been softened, warmed and strengthened to action by the love and the rain of grace, now that 
the roots of your good qualities have spread against the light, now also the rain of grace begins to fall 
abundantly on you. Now that most of the superfluous little traits and peculiarities are gone, you begin to clear 
up even more of what was still in you as a weed, and you now stand there like a flower after the rain, where 
brilliant drops of fallen rain on its leaves and calyxes reflect the whole universe, lifting your heart up to Me, 
openly displaying the glorious results of your Father's all-embracing, never-ending love in heaven, who has 
also guided you spiritually through night to the light, through rain and wind, made you able to now breathe in 
the balsamic fragrances that always follow the refreshing rain, whether it be in the material as well as in the 
spiritual world.
11] Stand firm! as the beautiful, spiritual flower I have brought up in you; be a joy and comfort to Me in 
your surroundings; and like a flower spreads only balsamic fragrance around it, you too spread soothing love, 
tolerance and love awakening gentleness around you!
12] This is supposed to be the result of the spiritual rain which I now let pour down on you. And as the rain 
and the sun both pour out blessings on the good and the bad, so you also spread only good around you. Do 
not mind how this good is understood and utilized; do it because you want to resemble Me, the giver of all 
good, whether others use it for good or not, you do not care. You, doing good, collect on your head diamond 
pearls of benevolent rain; the others, who do not know how to use the gifts, or often do not want to use them, 
or even abuse them, these collect instead of (pure) water pearls, which are able to reflect infinity in their 
luster, only dirty water that clouds their vision even more than it strengthens it.
13] Be like Me! Consider all of nature - what I do not do every day, every hour, even in every pulse beat or 
least period of time! How many rains of grace I am sending over all mankind, and where are those who 
understand all this, where are those who only want to look up to Me and cry out: "Lord, what are we that you 
remember us!"?
14] And yet I do not cease to multiply graces on graces to finally force even the most hardened to repent, not 
by punishment but by love.
15] So you do it also, My dear child; let grace upon grace, blessings upon blessings pour on your fellow men;
they are all steps to Me, your Father, who has long since led you and is waiting for His child with 
outstretched arms when, after long struggles, he will sink victoriously into them.
16] I have given you this beautiful goal! So do not let the rain of grace pour down on you in vain, let it wash 
away everything that does not belong in your heart, and the rain of grace that came from above will also lead 
you up again.
17] So - persevere! The goal is worth the struggle. Do not despair, the one who wrote this to you will always 
support you as long as you walk on His paths! - Amen.
58
Chapter 17
Man and Creation (1) (February 27, 1871)
01] Already some of you, and many others who have not received My Words as much as you have, have 
often thought about human life; how many sufferings and bitter experiences accompany man from the 
beginning, from the cradle to the grave, how many vain hopes and desires dissolve like faint mists into empty 
nothingness, and many a one thought within himself – why so much bitterness in such a short span of time of 
human life!
02] Some accused me of cruelty, unloving and who knows what else. Some others denied Me a feeling of 
pain and sorrow, and some finally denied Me completely, accepted like once the heathen peoples a fate or 
destiny from which none can escape and which in its incessant rolling crushes like a ball everything that gets 
in its way.
03] According to appearances, there is much to support the validity of such an assumption, where in the end 
even the existence of a ruling God must be rejected.
04] But in reality it is not so, one only has to look at and judge things and conditions from a different point 
of view than how they are imagined, judged and criticized by the ordinary world mind.
05] Anyone who looks at the world from this side cannot, of course, come to a comforting, joyful view; for 
if he also wishes to accept a divine teaching of justice, retribution, reward or punishment, he usually sees the 
opposite of everything, and the truth of many proverbs rooted in the people, such as:
06] "The greater the rouge, the greater the happiness!" or: "You let the great thieves go, and you hang the 
small ones"; or as in married life: "Man and woman are one body, but not one stomach"! where man then 
feels more and more that none of the beautifully written words on this earth are fulfilled, as from the cradle 
of diseases threaten the young life, more mature, the moral temptations to all kinds of vices; when he sees, as 
in adolescence, where the most beautiful flowers want to bloom to transform the spring of physical (earthly) 
life into a paradisiacal garden, when he sees that just there the hard, merciless hand of the world bends all 
these flowers, so that they wither to never to rise again; when he sees all the vices of the calculating mind 
flourish there and are justified by the masses; when he sees how one wants to rise on the shoulders of 
another, how each thinks only of domination, but not of obedience; when he sees how everything is just 
about fighting and struggling for the welfare and satisfaction of human earthly needs; when he sees that the 
further up one gets into the higher circles of human society, up there is often that virtue which is called a vice 
in the lower classes; when he sees that, if one wants to escape into such a world and eat his bread in peace, as 
you say, "one must howl with the wolves" and all other noble and beautiful principles of the boy and young 
man must be thrown overboard, if one does not want to die of hunger or be declared a fool before the world;
When he finally sees that, when a family circle has been founded, the worries of his own childhood, which 
he unconsciously prepared for his parents there, now approach him, now also register with him in a tangible 
way; when he then sees how a child brought up with great care, sorrow and fear is taken away from him by 
illness, later by degeneration or even by death; when he sees how often, after everything he does for his 
children, he does not receive the slightest recognition, not a glance of gratitude, not a word of thanks from 
them; when he sees how there the son, there the daughter, only waits until death takes him out of the world, 
so that one or the other can enjoy undisturbed the inheritance which he has collected by the sweat of his brow
and also sometimes not exactly by legal means, because he or she thought so: "The end justifies the means!" 
And when he himself is now closer to old age, when his physical powers and faculties (abilities) are 
59
diminishing, when illnesses occur (often consequences of earlier aberrations), when he then sees that he, 
helpless, must be more and more a burden to others, and so slowly approaches the grave which he fears 
because it covers a land unknown to him, appearing materially to be his destruction, his complete 
dissolution.
07] Who would not agree with the tortured man when he is disappointed by all hopes, robbed of all the 
beautiful images of his youth through his later career in cold reality, empty, with a sterile (edema) mind and 
full of bitterness because of the disappointments, wants to curse the God who put him into this vale of 
misery, to be born with pain, to fight with suffering, and to lead him out of this world again with painful 
agony, which he did not understand, neither when he entered it, nor less clear when he left it, finally leads 
him into the hereafter, from where, as he says, "no one has returned".
08] This is the image the world holds up to a rational man. As I have described it here, so many have already 
accused Me, Providence and their own fate; so many have begged Me to be recalled from this life in silent 
prayer when too much assailed them!
09] Everyone believes he has endured, suffered, sacrificed the most; everyone believes he deserves a better 
fate, because he is far worse than he is, and enjoys all that he had dreamed of as his only happiness on this 
earth in abundance. and precisely because such accusations, such ideas are still in so many of your hearts, 
that is why I chose these two words that are at the top of this dictation to remove from these fickle hearts the 
last spark of the accusation of their fate or My guidance, so that they may see that behind this supposed 
image of a human life lies hidden the most glorious purpose and the greatest bliss, and that not a blind fate, 
but a loving hand of an all-powerful Creator, a Father who loves you all, spins the threads that lead you out 
of this labyrinth of calamities into His arms, into His heavens.
10] Behold, My children, there is a holy, great law in all material and spiritual creation without which it 
could not exist, and this law has two great, single life factors, one called (will) freedom and the other 
(eternal) perfection.
11] Where there is no freedom, there is no perfection, no progress; and where there is no progress - no 
purpose; and where there is no purpose - no end result.
12] Now, when the great creation was thought, created and realized by me, there I, as spirit creating the 
spiritual, also had to leave the former principle to these spirits, I wanted to achieve the other; that is, I had to 
give them freedom, even inviolable freedom, should they not become machines, but self-regulating beings: 
These creatures had to be beings worthy of me!
13] It goes without saying that where someone lends power to one or many, it can also be abused because it 
is based on freedom itself.
14] So I knew in advance that abuse of this freedom will, indeed must, be made!
15] Therefore already in the second factor of life "perfection" the reason was laid that in My work no 
standstill but only an improvement can occur, from which it follows that who only wants to stand still while 
others progress, has gone backwards!
16] For where perfection is possible, there must also be its opposition - aggravation; where progress - is 
regression, where rapprochement - is removal, where light - is shadow, where warmth - is cold, where 
movement - is rest, where life - is death.
60
17] So you see that I did not create evil, I did not put the dark sides of all possible spiritual qualities into the 
world as orderly; no! they formed themselves through the only great basic law of Myself and My creation, 
through the great word "freedom"!
18] Now how this freedom was used and abused by My first created spirits, as it is still done to this day, 
often not for the best of the living beings and their own destiny, that you see from the previous lamentations 
of a man about his earthly path.
19] Now we want or must assume that between a Creator and His created beings there must always be an 
enormous gap that can never be crossed, where, as in your mathematics, the asymptotes (crooked lines, 
curves that eternally approach a straight line but never touch it), all spiritual can approach Me eternally, but 
can never become like Me (only similar), then you see the second great principle - perfection - as inevitably 
necessary to emerge from the first.
20] The fallen spirits who had voluntarily departed from Me and started the wrong way could not or did not 
want to know anything about perfection, about progress.
21] But in order not to completely block off this path for them too, they had to be brought into conditions 
where, unperturbed by their own freedom, they could turn back whenever they wanted.
22] For this purpose the material world or the whole universe or the material creation man was founded; in 
him the spirits, according to the degree of their malice, were wrapped (clothed) in matter, exposed to 
struggles, temptations and suffering, in order to gradually bring them to understand their own mistakes 
through conditions affecting them, and secondly to initiate their voluntary return themselves in this way.
23] Now, as much as there are worlds, as many suns and planets, there are just as many millions and 
millions of gradations of spirits, all of which will one day make their way back to their Creator, and 
everywhere you can see the principle of "freedom" is established first and the principle of perfection 
(progress) second.
24] The spirits bound in matter also want to free themselves; liberation leads to the transformation of matter, 
which has less evil effects on others, that is the decomposition of matter, is its transformation, its dissolution.
25] The coarser dissolves into ever lighter things, the firmer into softer things, where the sphere of action 
then widens more and more, the realization of improvement is perceived.
26] From coarse, mineral matter to vegetable substances, which, although bound to one place, already 
contain freer spirits with a few exceptions; from the vegetable to the animal and from the animal to the last in 
material creation, to human spirits or souls.
27] Everywhere, because of perfection, the struggles with the other world that affects them are everywhere 
an aspiration for liberation; everywhere dissolution or destruction determines the step to a higher level.
28] Even in the smallest plant soul there are battles to be fought, the little plant has to fight up to the fullgrown tree with all kinds of adversities (according to its essence), just as man has to fight from the cradle to 
the grave.
29] Each animal lives in the same trap, coming into the world immature, they depend on their progenitors, 
then has to go through all dangers between elemental influences and enemies who strive to destroy its mental 
or physical organism. The higher the animal stands, the more sensitive the feelings increase with such 
61
dangers and so on. (One should forbid vivisection, the experiments crying out to heaven on living animals of 
so-called scholars by state laws.)
30] While the lowest animals, barley hatched from the egg, are already so conditioned that they can seek 
their own food, do not feel much or anything at all of an attachment to their progenitors, the spiritual interior 
develops with a higher degree, this feeling for the brood, the care for the nutrition of the young, the pain 
when either violent hands destroy this small world or when other circumstances have brought about its 
removal or destruction.
31] The higher the beast rises, the deeper and more lasting are these signs of a higher spiritual level.
32] In a bird, for example, all the unpleasantness that man experiences and why he accuses his fate of being 
cruel is repeated. Even these small, airy inhabitants of your atmosphere have their sufferings, their struggles 
and their fears.
33] Lying helpless in their nest, like the cradle, they depend on their parents; then once freed from this 
compulsion, as it were in adolescence, the feelings of sexual union, family life come into play; The bird sings 
its thanksgiving songs to its unknown creator, cheers for the rising sun, rejoices in its life, for it knows no 
danger.
34] But it is precisely by this sounding of his breast that he also reveals himself to his enemies, betrayal and 
disappointment lurks everywhere; the time of mating comes, and he now feels for himself the worries that he 
caused his progenitors; then the age approaches where the search for food and the avoidance of danger 
becomes more difficult; the elements have a more harmful effect on him, he falls under their influence or 
under other circumstances to the fate of his kind; everything goes on with him as with another being, only 
one thing he does not know what was reserved for the last in creation, that is, he (as an animal) does not 
know death; he feels comfortable that a transformation wants to proceed with him, but he has not felt a 
similar experience throughout his whole life - he has so far only escaped the pain, but he does not know the 
dissolution, the transformation or the transition to another level to another higher stage.
35] This is only for those beings who, conscious of their origin, were to approach Me - these beings whom I 
created in My image, it was reserved for them alone to know the consciousness of death along with all 
earthly sufferings and struggles and to have to face this apparently terrible guest with cold blood, who is 
unavoidable for all mortals.
36] But precisely for this reason also these beings have the highest spirit in them, which I have put into 
material creatures, so that they may also counter material decay with an eternal permanence as spirit.
37] But to educate this highest created spirit, that means a human soul, that it, worthy of me, should once 
resemble me, and that it can one day exist in My close vicinity, exactly for this reason man from the cradle 
on is the most helpless and left to the care of others; that is why his temptations and trials are so strong that 
wherever he wants to cling to the worldly or make it the main thing, it always pushes him back, telling him: 
"What do you want from me, offspring of a higher spiritual world; with Me you will find only 
disappointment and deception, there in that spiritual realm is what you seek in vain with Me!"
38] Therefore, the various allowances of all kinds of accidents, deprivations, examples where the one is 
currently happy, who does not deserve it, while the innocent has to suffer, live and endure. That is why the 
divine "Word", the teaching of a more beautiful, higher life, so that man should not despair when the world 
62
treats him hard, when he wants to throw himself into her arms with all force and she rejects him with scorn, 
calling out to him: "You are not for this, nor from this world!
39] Thus these principles of "freedom", "perfection" and "progress", also in human life, return to their 
course.
40] Freedom invites the abuse of it; the abuse, as against My order, punishes itself, and in order to reach 
perfection, these mistakes against My laws must produce these great disappointments, where in the end man,
inevitably, returns again to what he started from, that is - to me!
41] What he fails to do here, will surely be able to be repaired in the other, longer lifetime.
42] Therefore, My children, do not accuse the world, do not accuse the circumstances, do not accuse Me
when misfortunes fall upon your head, clearing your households: It is everywhere only the second, great 
principle of nature without which nothing can exist; it is the necessary, conditional perfection that drives 
everything to these steps and where I Myself have shown you the shortest way through My descent to this 
earth, and which I now want to significantly shorten for you through My many direct messages.
43] Everything is so arranged to lead your spiritual self to perfection, like everything in the whole material 
world, on a lower level from the ruins of these stages to a higher level, where after the dissolution of the 
material life My hand wants to raise you to a higher, more spiritual level, where you are to recognize even 
more My power, My love and your mission.
44] Understand it once again, there is an even higher, bigger and more beautiful world ahead of you, which 
you have to achieve and which you will only reach when you, completely disregarding the worldly, 
spiritually understand your destiny, place it in My hands and are firmly convinced that a father can only love 
but never punish his children.
45] Then the world will gain a different reputation for you. Let it be given to him to whom the world gives 
its glory, its money; the world gives him this, but I take away his spiritual treasure for it; the world treasure 
will evaporate under the conditions of the world, which by and large is also approaching its process of 
perfection, like every individual human being.
46] But you, little children, remain with your spiritual gold mine within your heart! Only there the world 
does not penetrate; there a different principle prevails, and that means: the principle of spiritual freedom 
founded by Me for all creations!
47] If you pay homage to this and want to perfect yourselves spiritually, then progress will not fail to bring 
you ever closer to Me away from the world and where you will only attach as much value to worldly worries 
and worldly misfortunes as they actually have in order to take your inner being one step further.
48] Therefore, keep your spiritual freedom, become perfect as your Father is in heaven and your mission 
will be accomplished and you will be entirely worthy of Me, your Creator and Father! Amen.
63
Chapter 18
Man and Creation (2) (September 17, 1871)
01] If you look carefully at the human form and consider that the form of man is the last thing in all creation, 
after which everything struggles, to which everything strives, and the form which I have described as "My
image", then you must nevertheless think to yourselves that this form and also the inner organization of the 
human structure is based on a great spiritual basic idea, which is the type and the ultimate goal of all created
things; you must have noticed often in lonely hours many a thought aimed at deciphering this very riddle and 
its "why".
02] Now I want to reveal to you again a little piece of My Wisdom so that a new impulse will come into you 
and you will get to know from another side your Father as Creator and Supreme Being. I do this so that there 
will be no slackness in your progression and that you may lean your heart more towards the spiritual than 
towards the worldly!
03] See, My children, I have often told you: Everything that was created has a spiritual, higher purpose!
Now I still have to add to it incidentally that among all possible forms and organisms a spiritual truth, a 
spiritual idea is hidden, which can only be this way and no other, because as the highest spiritual being I only 
have high spiritual truths and ideas and can only put these into everything created as God! Because if it 
would not be so, then I would not be a God, not a supreme being, and perhaps attainable, perhaps even 
surpassed by some great angelic spirit.
04] For this reason all created things and beings which exist in the whole material and spiritual creation are 
only an expression of My supreme wisdom, and much paper would have to be dedicated if I wanted to 
explain to you only the smallest thing in its material and spiritual importance because even though many 
people on your earth are engaged in research in all areas of science, there is not one of them who could justly 
and conclusively explain a single "why" in a fair and concise manner. 
05] Just like the case with the smallest atom in the large ether, that is also everywhere. Everywhere My
wisdom, My basic thought of creation is concealed, and everywhere, if your scholars wish to ask: "But why 
so and not otherwise? no other answer than: "Because that's the way it has to be!"
06] It goes without saying that this answer can suffice for a few, but they have to be content with that, since 
nothing else can be found out.
07] How often do I go against their mathematical, mechanical or chemical laws, and what comes out in the 
end everywhere? That their teachings, as they are often cleverly conceived, are only products of common 
sense and not of a higher being, of a divine Creator.
08] I created people in a limited way, with restrictions from which they cannot get out on a worldly 
intellectual path, but only go around in a circle where they have to start from the inexplicable, have to return 
again to the inexplicable, and the Egyptian divine teachings of Isis or goddess of wisdom always remain true 
where it was said:
09]"No mortal can lift the veil of truth and live on!"
10] The Egyptians knew well what they wanted to say with these words; only the present scholars do not 
understand it, because the Egyptians were too close to the truth to have not known enough that with the 
speculative spirit of reason it is not even possible to get far, and that, if one wants to penetrate further, one 
64
has to deepen oneself with the heart into creation, there one first has to find out the spiritual spark, similar to 
the same one that I put in every human being, in order to then get a slight idea of what cannot be a concept, 
but only a matter of feeling!
11] He who has arrived there, who knows how to awaken his divine indwelling spirit and unite it with his 
soul, for him there is no longer a secret, he sees creation transparent like a glass filled with water; He sees the 
spiritual work, easily recognizes the simple but great laws that created everything, preserves everything, and 
drives everything to higher levels; he recognizes My Love in My works, he suspects My greatness; and even 
if at every glance a thousand "why" rise, one look at Me gives him all the bliss of a child who experiences 
there that all these miracles, all these worlds have been brought into being just for him, the little weak image 
of his great, supreme Father and Creator!
12] So then the born again, spiritual man understands his Father and himself and sinks before Him in 
devotion and worship, who, wrapped in dust and earth, lent His divine spark to contemplate and comprehend 
all the wonders, which was created only for this highest and last idea, the association of all others, the human 
form and human spiritual and material organization was created
13] So that at least you can see with a vague notion what your body and its furnishings contain, so that you 
can only see what this body contains in brief excerpts, whom you drag around for such a short lifetime, that
covers your intellectual and spiritual garments, and which body you so often abuse, I again want to give you 
another spiritual insight of My scribe so that in this image you may again recognize My and your goal; so 
listen:
14] The human body as you see it before you, with its millions and millions of diversities in the individual, 
is the imprint of My only and highest idea of creation, is the image of My spiritual self! For even all spirits 
up to the greatest and nearest to Me, they all have this human form; but the formation of this form, its beauty, 
is still so vast and sublime that you cannot even form an idea of the next spiritual beings above you, let alone 
those figures, where the external form is the highest expression of the inner, spiritually sublime.
15] This human form, which, as you know, even expresses the material world as the last type, as a great 
cosmic man, in which Myriads of suns move - this form, in which all spiritual heavens are again closed into a 
whole, this form everywhere has the same spiritual meaning, its individual parts the same, corresponding to
the spiritual formations and functions. - And anywhere you want to start, you would see that only one basic 
idea and one basic principle of My Supreme Wisdom shines through simply and clearly, since with small 
means the greatest purposes are achieved.
16] See how all shell globes surround a denser atmosphere and thus place the whole material world as an 
isolated whole in the infinite etheric space, where this great cosmic man constantly receives new life on a 
path to be traversed and communicates the same to his inner parts - just as the skin is with all created, living 
and non-living beings which separates them from the whole as standing alone and thus prevents their 
dissolution into the great material world.
17] Under the cerebral shell, which arches in a semi-spherical or more elliptical shape over the seat of 
human spiritual life, under this shell, as the hardest bone structure, lives and weaves the most delicate organ, 
the brain with its mental functions.
65
18] The fact that the shell is hemispherical or domed indicates that as a hemisphere it has internally a center 
from which it is formed, or as an ellipse it actually has two focal points, one in the forebrain and the other in 
the hind brain.
19] In the forebrain, the seat of intelligence, the external life communicates with the internal life, so that its 
spiritual windows, the eyes and ears, convey to it the impressions of the external world, while in the lower 
part of the head the speech apparatus communicates the inner impressions of the external world.
20] The hind brain, as the worldly focal point, provides the functions of material existence, drives the 
apparatus to form the body, to maintain and reproduce it.
21] What the forebrain is in humans and also in animals, in the universe there are large outer spaces which 
also have the same functions as here on a small scale.
22] The tools of breathing, like the nose and mouth in the head, are respiratory channels, partly for 
connecting the outside world with the inner organism, partly also, especially the mouth, means, in addition to
worldly preservation, which is even more important, promoting spiritual matter - by word, by sound, to 
confirm that a material shell surrounds an even far more spiritual one, which with its formation also 
contributes to the perfection of the spiritual.
23] As for the lungs, the heart, the latter as the general driving force of the whole apparatus, the stomach, the 
liver and the spleen, their functions are all expressed spiritually.
24] First, the lung - place of reception of the substance of life flowing into it from outside, as in spiritual 
man the spiritual truth; The lung is also the place where material consumption is changed by spiritual 
phenomena, in spiritual man the place of separation between tamed passions and newly acquired virtues.
25] The heart as the universal, sole principle of life, the eternal untiring mover or motor, which always gives 
something new to all parts, gladly takes over the old, carries on further - this heart, considered spiritually, is 
also the seat of eternal spiritual activity, the seat of eternal spiritual energy, which always drives man (the 
spiritual) to continue to excrete what is bad in him and to replace it with something better. This heart as the 
only point of life, is the hearth and seat of the soul and of the spirit put into it by me. In its shape, broad 
above (vessel-like) and tapering below, it means that human life should begin on a broad basis and work 
towards a goal in a pointed or pointed form!
26] The liver, as a separating apparatus of the bilious parts of the blood, which have become useless in it, 
but which are necessary in the nutritional process as stimulants of digestion and separation into the primitive 
elements, resembles in spiritual man the human course of life, where bitterness is also excreted, but is 
necessary for the preservation and correct assessment of the way of life; for without bitter experiences there 
would be no spiritual elevation, without bitterness, there would be no joyful, blissful expansion or extension 
of human emotions, far beyond the limits of material life.
27] As for the stomach is concerned, the sustainer of material life, the place of reception of such diverse
products, in order to then find out from them what is necessary for the body, it corresponds spiritually to the 
circle of deeds and impressions of the external world on the human mind or its soul.
28] As food mixes in the stomach, then in the further course of digestion, but in other compounds than how 
they were created in the stomach, they separate again, just as the life of deeds and the impressions from 
outside are the material from which the soul builds up its spiritual shell. It also absorbs everything that 
66
penetrates it from the outside. It then excretes, purifies the rest with bitter experiences, and always struggling
and separating the good from the bad, it retains the permanent, never decaying and, as in the intestines, in the 
end excretes the superfluous, no longer belonging to life.
29] The spleen, this hearth of fire and reviver of blood (through electricity), which like an electric battery 
impregnates the blood with new warmth and thus helps to spread life and contributes most, for without heat 
there is no life; in the spiritual man this is love, the all- encompassing love, which gives the spiritual man 
spiritual warmth or the spiritual life; for where there is no love, there is no warmth, where there is no warmth 
- no life!
30] In this way, all other organs and their functions spiritually correspond to the same spiritual needs of man 
without a physical shell.
31] The organs, their forms and their devices are always only the repetitions of one and the same form, the 
egg or ellipse form, and one and the same force, the attractive or repulsive; which taken spiritually is also in 
Myself love as an attracting force and wisdom as a modifying (shaping, transforming) factor thereof. In this 
elliptical form I am also a focal point, around which everything moves and to which everything wants to flee,
if it were not for the other focal point, the matter, which withdraws again from me, which binds again what is 
released, in order to then return it in a new, higher form.
32] From these three factors: oval form, magnetism and electricity, the whole universe is composed, all 
organic and inorganic beings exist, all the forms and inner mechanisms of them exist, the great cosmic man, 
the even greater celestial man, and My angelic spirits exist; all are imprints, as you are in human form, of 
these spiritual forms, paired with love and wisdom.
33] All individual parts of your body, from the bone structure to the last globule, are partly ellipses, the 
spiritual expression of My central being as the sole ruling and reigning God, just as the same system is 
followed in the world orbits; also there every central sun stands in a focal point as spiritual center, around 
which the other worlds and earth must revolve.
34] I am the central point of all spiritual and material creation - you are the central point of everything 
created, everything advances towards you, everything strives for your form, everything is promoted in stages.
35] Just as you as human beings, as the last creations of the material world, express My will, My laws and 
your high destiny, which you are to follow, so I stand as the central point of all spiritual things - also 
everything advances towards me, everything longs for me, and to reach Me everything goes its planned 
course. This is the reason for eternal progress. "Upward!" and "Forward!" is the call that resounds through all 
the vast spaces of creation.
36] With difficulty he smallest infusion animal struggles its way up to a higher class; millions of them are 
the basis of a higher being; the senses, which place man above all created beings, are still hidden there, only 
one or the other is formed step by step. So it goes up and forward, in matter what is bound frees itself, binds 
itself under new conditions to new forms, and so it goes on and on; to the highest of material creation -
everything advances to man, everything seeks to reach him. Even though they have reached the last stage of 
animal intelligence, a wide, insurmountable gap separates the last animal from the first human. It is the same
gap as from the last angelic spirit to Me: an approach is possible, but no attainment. Just as the animal, 
together with many other souls from the animal kingdom, can only contribute to the material construction of 
the human body and thus identify (equate) its self with that of man on this long path, so it is also with the 
67
angelic spirits and nearest beings in My proximity, they too can only take the highest levels in My created 
spirit world, approaching the nearest to Me; but with Me (absolutely) they do not become one; which 
actually (also) has nothing to do with it for a Supreme Spirit already enjoys such a satisfying bliss as no other 
neither demands nor could endure!
37] Thus, My children, learn to understand how the spiritual is everywhere the main reason and principle of 
all that is created. In all forms the same thought of My omnipotence is concealed in love; everywhere the 
same law applies, which forms your bones, gives you a lovely appearance, or holds all worlds together. Do 
not ask for the "why", it cannot be explained for the created. See your eye in which the whole material world 
is reflected, with which you receive knowledge of the creations of My love, be it in your immediate vicinity, 
be it of worlds whose ray of light strikes your eye only after thousands of years! 
38] See, if you wanted to ask, but why then a transparent one, why a watery moisture, why a crystal lens, 
why the black net, why the iris, why all these substances and bodies, and these again composed of other 
small atoms - there, My children, I can only tell you because it had to be like this and not different. To 
understand the "why" in My sense, you would have to be like gods, endowed with the same wisdom and 
energy as I Myself!
39] Therefore rejoice in the fact that I have given you organs so that you can admire My creations and hear 
their harmonies; content yourselves with what a loving Father has given to His children so that through His 
works they may love, appreciate and understand him; no created being can lift the veil of the divine truth of 
creation. Leave it untouched and think that a father also only says as much to his children and teaches them 
as is appropriate to their understanding.
40] If I wanted to explain a little thing to you exhaustively, what do you think the end result would be? 
Behold, I will tell you in a few words:
41] I would divide a small thing for your eyes into even smaller things, these small parts would be divisible 
again, with each division other forms, other substances would show themselves, into infinity always 
changing, dividing, but never have an end! 
42] Now if you wanted to ask with every division - why? with every change - why? what would come out of 
it? Behold, in the end it would come out that you would ask Me to stop explaining, fragmenting; for the 
second, third change or division would already go far beyond your comprehension!
43] Therefore, let God be what God is! and abide with what a man, and later a spirit, can grasp, that is: abide
in love with Me! as a created being can love Me; your love for Me is like finiteness to infinity. love Me! 
prove it in your actions! and you will then be able to sense with your heart what your mind can never grasp.
44] Thus the form of man judges its spiritual counterparts, and you will find that everywhere only My
father's hand lovingly designed everything in such a way that you can find the way to Me and I, through your 
love, can again pay back to a rich degree what you as My children sacrifice to Me during your course of life.
45] If you are with Me, if you understand the spirit language in form and word, then the harmony in 
everything will be easily understandable to you, and then a childlike mind in looking up to Me will suspect 
and know more than a learned worldly wise man who filled his head with sciences for years and thereby left 
his heart empty. 
68
46] It is obvious that a spiritual idea, coming only from a spirit like me, must lie in all created things; but 
that this spiritual idea cannot always be understood by lower spirits than I am Myself is also natural. On your 
Earth do you think the consequence (consistency) to be a main characteristic of the human spirit; who then 
has put this idea in you? Behold, it was the consequence of My creation that led you to it. If you want to be 
consistent and persistent in carrying out a plan, why should it not be Me who was before one being was ever 
created, and who will be when all material covering has ceased and only spiritual, like me, will continue to 
exist.
47] Therefore seek in spiritual ways to foresee what is concealed in the material, and you will always find 
that a God who created such is and can be only a God of love, who of course also brought His created beings 
into life for the sole reason that they all give back to Him what He only formed for them alone.
48] Thus My scribe saw the intimate union of the great creation with the form of a man, so that all inner 
parts were brightly illuminated and understandable to him; he was amazed at what he saw, his heart filled 
with love towards me, love enlightened him more and more; the forms appeared clearer and brighter, he 
recognized more and more the wise facilities of his own self; he recognized the gentle bond that connects the 
spiritual and material worlds, recognized My love and grace that made him sense and feel it. Now that it is 
written what he enjoyed in that hour, it is up to you: Get up from the mud of the world! shake the dust of 
self-interest from your feet! raise your eyes upwards so that such an hour of bliss and peace may also be 
granted to you! This is My purpose, which is why I give you this hour experienced by My scribe as common 
knowledge; seek to love Me as I actually want and certainly deserve it; then you also will enjoy in My
spiritual realm what the worldly cannot give you.
49] This is what your Father calls to you, who has already given so much to you and is inclined to give even 
more; it is enough that you only want to take it seriously and not superficially revel in delight, but actively 
take it up into your practical life; this is My advice, the observance is with you, for which you should not 
lack My help and support! Amen.
Chapter 19:
A Waterfall (June 29, 1873)
01] Last night you read a description of the Niagara Falls, thinking of Me and the beauty of My nature.
02] But since in everything that is visible before your eyes there is an even deeper reason for the existence 
as well as for the effect of the individual on the whole, I will here again to prove to you with a few words 
that there is still something completely different in everything than people often think.
03] Well, the describer of the Niagara Falls has admired My nature, that is, a small piece of it; the 
magnificence of the spectacle, the noise, the roar of the water has aroused in him feelings which he could not 
avoid expressing in order to make others also aware of the eternally same impulse that reigns in all My
nature and is called "life".
04] Here at this waterfall the water column thundered into his ear, which he could also have heard with a 
slight whisper of the wind or a ray of light from distant suns if he had ears for it. Only the huge waterfall 
overpowers or stuns the human earthly feeling, and under this mighty struggle of water, air and earth man 
69
seemed to him so tiny, so small that he could not deny My power, even if he did not want to acknowledge it 
as existing at first.
05] Well, such nature scenes always result in the humiliating feeling that forces man to see his own 
greatness sink into nothing.
06] It is a good thing if at least one ancestor of a spiritual kingdom is recognized, which shines out through 
this great spectacle of nature and forces man to confess what he does not want under other circumstances, 
namely: that there must be a God who has created all this for the benefit and spiritual language of man, so 
that he is sometimes reminded that all his inventions, his imaginary greatness, is nothing and in nature and 
elementary events he has to admit this nothingness to himself.
07] But all this is not the purpose of this word, but I want to use the Niagara Waterfall for something else, 
and that is the question:
08] Why is there actually a waterfall, big or small?
09] Could I not have shaped the earth so that it had no mountains and no depressions, everywhere lowland 
and the brooks, rivers and streams flowed calmly into the sea in their beds?
10] To give a sufficient, but spiritual answer to this question is the purpose of this word, and I want again to 
prove to you how much of the deep, spiritual, and also necessary material belongs to it creating a world 
body, that then sustains itself, perfects itself and thus fulfills its mission for higher purposes.
11] Now behold, My children, life, be it material, that is to say spiritually bound, or free, spiritual, can 
manifest itself everywhere only in such a way that an emergence, then a partial continuance and then a finite 
passing away denotes its phases of development.
12] Life in the material visible is friction, the development of warmth, of light, gradually progressively 
decomposing or transforming into other forms in order to become gradually suitable for higher purposes.
13] So you know life and say: "it moves, it lives." 
14] What is at rest seems lifeless, seems dead.
15] This life, or the perpetual cycle of existence and decay continues on according to once established basic 
principles; you call it "life", and "fight" is what I call it.
16] Fight for survival, fight for progress, fight to reach a higher level.
17] Well, this principle, which is the same in the last infusion animal as in the greatest central sun - this 
principle is also in the elements, which in liquid state constitute both the atmosphere of the worlds and their 
interior.
18] Without this fight everything would rot, decompose and face material death.
19] In your atmosphere, for example, air is an easily moveable element that never stands still, just as water 
on the surface of the earth, which as compressed air has the same restlessness or the tendency to always 
follow the course of gravity, to flow to where it can reach a resting point!
20] Inside the earth are metals and minerals, compressed gases and light elements which, like the water on 
the surface, have to perform the same process to thrive. Nowhere is there rest!
70
21] In the air, if you could see them before your eyes, are "air falls", which often far exceed your waterfalls 
in magnificence. There, this very necessary movement is felt by you as wind, which through movement 
keeps the individual components of the air in constant activity, stimulates them to connect, motivates them, 
warms them up through movement and keeps them alive.
22] What happens in the air is also the case in water. Water decays without movement, decomposes,
dissolves its components, otherwise so fruitful and useful, into harmful vapors as soon as the effect of 
movement is lacking.
23] Water, then, if it were to flow so calmly, would not have the appropriate life force to have a healing 
effect on plants, animals and people, it must be maintained through constant activity. And just as in the air 
storms and violent winds often have to increase this vitality even more, so the waterfall is the same thing, 
which is sometimes permitted or predestined on a large or small scale, in order to to bring new energy, new 
life to a river or stream on its long run to the sea, so that it can fulfil its purpose, have a fruitful effect on its 
surroundings.
24] Therefore waterfalls, seen with spiritual eyes, are the life-savers who guard the existing from decay and 
spread life and activity around themselves; for it is not only the fall of water, but also the fall of the air 
hovering above it, the friction of the individual parts of both elements, the decomposition, the reanimation, 
which actually prepare new life-force for water and thus greater activity for the earth.
25] Just as water, as a fluid element, pushes itself against the rigid rocks, rubs itself, develops life activity 
through friction, so the mountains, at great heights or individual mountains, are the rocks in the air stream;
where it too must push, must rub itself, increase its activity, and so exert its influence on the surface of the 
earth and on the living plants and the animal world. (See "The Grossglockner")
26] In the air, where incidentally light stimulates the individual atoms to form compounds as a decomposing 
factor, the same law is fixed as in everything: "Life" means moving, means fighting, means creating and by 
cosmic processes dissolving again into other forms, so in water. The water destroys the solid matter subject 
to it by friction, and decomposes by its movement at waterfalls, especially the air of its environment and its 
own components; and it is therefore a stream of carriers of life which, wherever it flows, emits streams of 
blessing through the stream of air that accompanies it until it arrives in the sea, discharging its best and 
strongest, instead of resting inactive, stimulated by the bitter and salty components of the ocean again to 
other compounds, but "under the ground", must begin its cycle again in other forms and on other ways.
27] Thus the mountains as receptacles for the newly revitalized water from below are "fans of the air 
stream", the streams moving on the surface of the earth with their cataracts (waterfalls) - "fans of the water 
stream"; and what you often admire in visible nature, in the air with terror and in the waterfalls with 
astonishment, also permeates spiritual life according to the same principles, where, in order to progress 
spiritually, one must fight and quarrel, so that spiritual life may become fit for eternity, not acidic or even 
decaying!
28] Behold how the air in its flow encounters obstacles, which the mountain masses are as solid objects, or 
how the water encounters resistances during its course, which want to restrict its course and thus forces air 
and water to exertion, just as in spiritual life the obstacles first awaken the spiritual character, steel it, and 
stimulate it to greater activity.
71
29] Just as it roars in the air under thunder and lightning, and the spirit of the wind is threateningly drawn 
along, or the water suddenly has to fall under thundering noise into an unexpected depth, there swirling and 
roaring must crush and rub against solid rocks - so it is the obstacles in human life that cause the cases where 
man, thrown out of his idyllic rest, needs all the strength in the whirlpool of life to come out of the turmoil of 
the rocks of life.
30] You must fight by force, and if, as is often the case with water, an obstacle is overcome, perhaps after a 
short period of time a new obstacle threatens, just as unforeseen as the first. So it continues, the calmly 
longed-for flow between flowery shores is not granted to man here, and if he also comes at the end into a 
wider river area, then it goes towards his spiritual destiny, where, like the water in the sea, he encounters 
different laws in the spiritual realm of the whole universe, different conditions, which force him to omit 
everything superfluous and only to continue sailing with that which is adapting to his surroundings, as the 
great spirit realm.
31] Thus a storm in the air, a waterfall between high banks, is the spiritual symbol of human life, where 
everywhere one's own life and that of others is conditioned only by struggle.
32] Behold the great river, how slowly it flows; likewise a life without spiritual activity. The river carries 
ships, but mostly carries mud and undrinkable water; its greatest life force has departed from it, it hurries to 
its destination, serving others more than itself. So human life; here too, in old age, where life activity is 
limited to a few things little more than vegetative progress, the old man approaches his transformation like 
the great river.
33] Well, both of them, when they used to be very useful to their environment and donated life and activity 
to others!
34] With this consciousness may man then also be able to exclaim: "I have not lived in vain!" Then he can 
calmly wait when the great ocean of the spirit world takes him into its bosom, where only the reward of what 
has been done awaits him, and through the attainment he is suitable to begin a new task in higher levels.
35] Thus, My children, take My material nature as an example, how you are to observe in your spiritual 
nature all circumstances which you encounter.
36] Waterfalls! The water falls down from a height, atomizes, evaporates and revives itself. Even if you 
often fall down from a dreamed height, do it like the water, renew your strength, break through the rocks of 
old habits, fight and fight, because fight is life! And just as the rushing mountain stream contains fresh, 
invigorating water, just as it communicates fertile moisture to its surroundings, so you too, revived by your
exertion of energy, should keep yourselves fresh, that is, viable, in order to fulfil your mission for yourselves 
and towards your surroundings or fellow human beings.
37] Just as everything blooms more beautifully near a mountain stream, everything shines in more beautiful 
green and nature is more bountiful, so let your surroundings also feel your presence; You should also spread 
the activity of life to them, so that when you walk through life freshly and boldly in the more beautiful glory 
of a moral consciousness, all those who go along with you may also understand and comprehend where the 
spiritual moisture comes from and how it is able to generate the richest splendor of light and color, where its 
effectiveness is able to penetrate.
38] So may the foaming roar of Niagara, or any other case, be to you and all others a spiritual example that 
"falling" is necessary in order to rise greater again spiritually; and that just as with waterfalls the arc of peace 
72
in the seven colors often delights the admiring spectator, it is the light that brings about this magic, just as 
with a moral pitfall the light of the divine word with the seven divine qualities is also what helps the fallen 
person again and will always be helpful to his further course during the short lifetime, as the air with the 
water, to transfer to others what has been experienced in his own life.
39] O if you could read more clearly in My Book of Nature how many instructive examples are written 
there, whose spiritual deciphering could grant you some blessed enjoyment, more than all worldly pleasure, 
and you would also see, as in the materially visible as in the spiritually invisible always the same law of love, 
of tolerance, and forgiveness prevails, and as also with apparent devastations only a loving purpose and 
reason is hidden, which indeed destroys many material things in order to save the spiritual! Thus this word is 
again to prove to you in fact how much spiritual light is already around you during the day, and when night 
falls, to remind you that above this short sunlight of a vanishing day a higher, eternal one shines towards you 
from the stars, but which you will only fully understand when the earthly is gone from you forever and your 
eye is fully capable of receiving only spiritual, namely constant light; while here in the life of tests you can 
only guess at some moments, inspired by natural phenomena, what a sun, a world is behind the coffin lid, 
and what a father stands there, who already wants to make you understand here in many great scenes of 
nature that you are not created for this short, but for an eternal, never-ending life!
40] So contemplate My Nature! Learn to read in it the Holy Scripture of My Love, which always calls out to 
you in the thunder of thunderclouds or a falling waterfall or in the soft murmur of a stream or in the gentle 
fan of a breeze: God is Love! Learn to understand Him, and I assure you, also you too must love Him!
41] Now you too, who wrote this word for others, should also learn in the nature that will soon be facing you 
(G. Mayerhofer was prompted by circumstances to go to the Alps for some time.) read how great and good 
your father and Lord is, who gives you such words for others and you the opportunity to enjoy spiritually on 
the spot what you have just had to describe to others; you also learn to understand how your father and Lord
is, who sends you out into His wide nature, so that you do not forget your spiritual besides your material 
interest; where between the mountains, glaciers and roaring forests streams of every sound of them may
whisper to you the same words that you have previously written here for others!
42] So much for you and the preceding for the others for the following consideration and knowledge! Amen.
Chapter 20:
A Word for the Short-sighted (January 20, 1873)
01] Recently you began to study again which once gave you much pleasure and sublime hours in your 
younger years (G. Mayerhofer held lectures on mathematics and astronomy at a famous institute at that 
time.), and where you were already searching only for Me at that time, but still not taking the right path, only 
suspected me, but not seeing Me so clearly before you as now, where I sometimes give you a spiritual vision 
which, far beyond time and space, the infinite God lets you experience in the infinite universe.
02] But since you do not enjoy anything alone, to feel nothing alone, and thereby believe that every spark of 
light that I sink into your breast belongs not only to you, but also to your brothers, your fellow men, your 
future friends of the true doctrine of God, I will also grant you your request and give you again a word full of 
the Spirit of love, grace and mercy so that your desire may be fulfilled and men now and in the future may 
still recognize where I am the easiest to understand and the easiest to find.
73
03] You recently read through a work of a man very dear to Me who, not only like the ordinary scholars,
but with everything he finds in My great household, gives Me the honor. ("Cosmos, or Bible of Nature" by 
Dr. Nathanael Böhner)
04] There you just began with the study mentioned from your earlier youth, with astronomy, you flew with 
the writer of this book through the great spaces of infinity, where you felt the Infinite more than anywhere 
else, where you understood and grasped its greatness and your tiny humanity on this earth so completely!
05] The numerical values of the probable magnitudes of worlds and suns, the distance between them, their 
interconnection, the harmony of their movements, the unchanging laws and even more, all of this uplifted
you on one side and depressed you on the other. And when you raised your eyes to Me and called upon Me: 
"what am I, O Lord, that You remember me! and I answered you in your heart: (You are) "My child!" only 
then did you regain composure and moral balance because you saw in Me not only the mighty unlimited 
Creator of such a universe as it was rolled up before your spiritual eyes like a book, but because you 
understood, as it can be seen in creation with all that is, from the fact that only a God like Myself can behave 
against his created beings in such a way that he also turned as much care towards the smallest as it is 
necessary for the attainment of perfection, so that each of us can fulfill our destiny and continue undisturbed 
on our way to higher levels!
06] Yes, My child, the great Creator is easiest to find in the great, for while one first has to search for His 
greatness in small things and think and feel to appreciate what has been found, the power of a great master 
craftsman involuntarily forces itself upon the beholder when the latter is faced with architectural remains that 
go beyond his usual concept.
07] The admirer then stands in amazement before a creative spirit, where his own self appears to him as 
nothing or, as it were, as actual zero. It is the undeniable comparison between the two, what he is and what I
am, which cannot be denied.
08] So it also happened to you when you read through the firmament, whereby its size, its distances, the 
laws of action among each other, all these quantities where your human body size or your tiny scale, the foot, 
as well as the diameter of your earth or the diameter of your earth's orbit, yes the diameter of your whole 
solar system and its distance from the next fixed star shrink into nothing and all these quantities, earthly 
numbers are not sufficient to measure My creation and its spaces or times.
09] Even when light with its transit hardly proved itself as a factor of calculation (because again numbers 
appear which are no longer comprehensible to your human mind, and at most only the somewhat faster
electrical spark could prove to be a yardstick with which you could not measure anything outside your 
atmosphere), only then did the afflicted soul reach for the fastest time and space gauge, for the thought, the 
measure, which I have put in you as God’s thoughts, in order to at least guess the approximation, how great 
even the limited material suns and worlds creation may be, where all other attempts to have even a slight idea 
of it were not sufficient.
10] In light of everything that was felt and imagined, a feeling of melancholy, of contriteness, and yet again 
a sweet feeling like a homesickness for those regions from which perhaps no ray of light has penetrated into 
your eye since their creation! You felt, far beyond time and space, the labor of a higher, greater spirit of love 
which, although immeasurable for you and your mind, was, is and will be palpable for your heart. Then you 
sank in prayer before the throne of your Creator, who is also your Father; It seemed incomprehensible to you 
how this very Father, among so many millions of worlds, should have chosen this little earth of yours to raise 
74
all the spirits here, and you tiny people, to a position of honor which, according to human concepts, you 
might have intended for other, more beautiful, larger worlds
11] In this urge of bliss, love, doubts and questions you turned to Me for a comforting word because you too 
are My child; and now I will give you the answer to all these riddles, from a point of view of which you and 
your friends and brothers have probably not yet had a concept or idea.
12] Even if I have already given you much in other words about My creation, about Myself, you may be 
assured: There are still new sides from which you have not considered the material as well as the spiritual 
creation and also have not in the least suspected that something new could be said about these things. And so 
I want to again also show in this word that My creation is far from being clear before your eyes as it is 
appropriate for My children that they should understand it; and to leave no means unused to lead you on an
easier path to knowledge, then follow Me on a walk through My House, where I also, like My
"representatives on earth", have countless dwellings.
13] Behold, My children, it is a general mental illness of most people that they do not want to concern 
themselves with that which might bring them closer to Me, more easily than others, and that they mostly turn 
elsewhere, where with abstract concepts, with painstakingly crafted sweet moments and exaltations they seek 
to prepare themselves spiritual pleasures to enter into communion with Me.
14] All of you who have received words directly from Me for years, all of you are so intertwined with the 
material life, with your bodily cares, that only with a new word, with a new, beautiful phrase does your 
innermost love-light shine, as with a night light which begins to extinguish because of lack of nourishment, 
where often such moments of light also occur but which are immediately followed by a greater darkness.
15] This way of understanding My words is most noticeable among you, and why? See, precisely because 
you do not follow the next path to keep yourselves in the spirit in which you could see mankind, the world 
and Me in a more beautiful, calm light.
16] These momentary elevations are only possible for a short time as nerve irritations. To obtain such a 
calm, sublime view of what surrounds you, it must be built on another ground, on the basis of ideas that 
accompany you everywhere, to which you can trace all events and experiences. As long as you do not have 
this skill, you will always waver in your actions, look at things darker than they really are, or attach more 
value to them than they really have.
17] You see, already in your ordinary earthly life you know from your own experience that when the human 
heart grasps something with all its love, as with favorite ideas or even being in love, as these ideas or the 
image of the beloved object follows you everywhere, accompanies you from morning to evening in all your 
actions, everything experienced is related to it, even still occupies your mind in dreams!
18] If you have encountered this experience, and now after having taken a closer look at My direct Word,
you want to proclaim with the words as I once said them: "My Kingdom is not of this world", I believe that it
should also look in your heart as it once did in relation to Me, as it once did in relation to a beloved earthly 
object. And yet, when you ask me, I tell you, this is not the case with you, but only with one or the other are 
the moments of higher spiritual pleasure longer than with others, but moments, they always remain 
temporary!
75
19] So in order to show you again here the way to enter so completely into communion with Me, become so 
completely familiar with Me and through an everlasting dialogue always rise higher and higher and become
calmer, so hear My words to you in this relationship, which are:
20] "Behold My Nature! It is the only true mediator between Me and you; for I am a Spirit, as a Spirit not 
visible to you, you can only sense Me, while I have placed My own language of love only too clearly into all 
material things, where the only thing missing is the attentive observer who wants to read and understand this 
book.
21] My book of creation is infinite! And as it is before you, especially on a small scale, you can only 
understand it if you follow your scientific researchers, who with much time and effort of patience slowly 
introduce you into the secrets of creation, as far as their enlightened mind and human resources allow.
22] But if sometimes the conclusions of these scholars are different from yours, do not bother with them:
23] All discoveries in the scientific field are only fruitful for the higher spiritual life if they are based on Me, 
on My teaching, on My love!
24] Thus you have to understand creation, so then also read My nature, and you will soon be met by a spirit 
of peace and order from all sides, which shows you as a consistent greatness in nature what you are lacking.
25] Few of you have been granted access to the secrets of the microcosm: either they lack the sense for this
occupation, or lack the means, or they are professional, ordinary, mindless ones, which prevents them from 
further exploration in this respect, and they have no choice but to proclaim after a walk in the great outdoors:
"Oh, how beautiful!" "How wonderful everything is!" But they lack the necessary knowledge to know why.
26] To understand nature's quiet work more closely therefore remains and has so far only been reserved for 
those who penetrated deeper into the fabric, which, like a net, has spun over everything visible. It was 
reserved for the serious observer, the deep thinker, to decipher the hieroglyphic script, which shows itself on 
many a dewdrop hanging from a moss leaf and which I as father of all created things have placed in the 
dewdrop as well as in a mighty central sun of a thousand millions of your miles in diameter!
27] This Mysterious language of love is reserved for few; but it is easier to decipher when at night the whole 
great starry firmament spreads over your heads, where you all too often, instead of looking into those 
previously unmeasured spaces, close your windows and curtains, and in your earthly sleep want to forget the 
world that surrounds you and spreads over you, and put you to bed in a material frame of mind, to get up
again all too often more materially in the morning.
28] The stars, which must encourage the question from every human being: what are they there for? to 
illuminate - certainly not, because they lack suitable brightness; nor for heating, The stars, as such created 
things, must spark the desire of every person who has learned to think in the least:
29] "I want to know, what are these shining dots in the night sky?"
30] Anyone who now listens to this question and does not delve too deeply into the worldly, earthly activity 
of his interest, as cattle do with food, will soon also find books and people who will then give him a small 
hint of what until now attentive observers have read out of the starry sky, while millions of people in their 
sleep unconsciously only lived their earthly life.
76
31] It was not for nothing that I let people make inventions to be able to read in this great realm of creation, 
it is not for nothing that I let them discover the orbital elements of suns, planets and comets, fixed stars, 
galaxies, nebulae and star clusters by working and searching for a long time in a calculated way. With this I 
wanted to move this great book, where I as creator and My creation stands as the greatest, closer to man, so 
that he remembers me, becomes aware of his own dignity and does not look down like the animals, but 
upwards - as the direction from which he came and where he will go again to complete, like all circling stars,
his course on earth.
32] Just as in the field flowers of all kinds of colors are on display, and all witnesses of My love and mercy, 
stars up there also circle around stars of different brilliance and intensity; they are also flowers in the great 
garden of My infinite creation, they are not fragrant, but their splendor, their light has something spiritual, 
sublime, which urgently awakens in one’s eye feelings of world harmony, the unity of laws such as you do 
not have on earth in your own way of life. 
33] The calculation shows you magnitudes that go beyond your imagination, they are (for you) 
inexpressible, unthinkable, like their Creator Himself.
34] From millions and millions of time periods light flows, even a material substance, to bear witness to the 
attentive observer of a spiritual creator who evoked those worlds, even before the former had only the 
slightest tendency as a ball of vapor to separate itself from the total mass and to make a separated whole, 
only then again gradually hardening and developing to become the dwelling place of living beings to praise, 
love and worship Me just like many millions of other creatures!
35] This starry sky with its millions of suns, with its distances, with its greatness is the only true image 
under which you tiny earth creatures can recognize or sense Me as Creator!
36] The starry sky imposes on you the idea that up there one must be measured with other magnitudes, with 
other times, in order to comprehend this great, infinite work, which expresses in itself infinitely.
37] This starry sky stretched out daily over your head should inspire you to reflect, to explore, so that even if 
the microcosm is unclear and closed to you, the macrocosm can partly be explained, so that you can read 
there in large letters of world creation what is written in small letters on every moss plant, on every 
infusorian being : "God is love".
38]"And he who will worship Him must worship Him in spirit and in truth!"
39]"Worship in spirit" means when you spiritually understand My material world, where I have recorded all 
My thoughts, and "in truth" means when in the secrets found and discovered by all researchers you have 
learned to distinguish the true from the false, the right from the wrong conclusion.
40] Up there, in the immeasurable spaces, you see a God calculating and building according to His way, not 
in small measurements, but according to the measure of Himself, according to the measure of infinity. Where 
all material resources are not sufficient to measure distances and magnitudes, there is only - God as the 
supreme thought, and only with the thought can be measured, judged, what only the thought created.
41] Hence your collapse into nothingness, My dear scribe, because you wanted to imagine what is only 
conceivable by the spirit and the heart, but unattainable to the mind.
42] That is why you exclaimed: "What am I, that you remember me" The force of greatness was too great 
for you, you wanted to grasp infinity, which only I, but you a finite being will never fully comprehend!
77
43] I gave you this word for your reassurance and encouragement to others that they should not consider this 
science, which is only capable of teaching them the greatest enjoyment and the highest idea of a Creator, to 
be so small that they should not believe that it is merely a study to calculate a few suns or lunar eclipses in 
advance, or to help the sailors in their calculation because of the eclipse of the Jupiter moons.
44] No! That is why I let astronomy flourish among you to make this great book, which unrolls before your 
eyes every night, readable and understandable to you and to prove to the unbelievers, the deniers of God and 
materialists that where such orderly laws as those above prevail there must also be a legislator, and the 
millions and millions of circling worlds all too clearly show that a God as Creator wants to accomplish this
with and through love which He could not so easily achieve by other means!
45] As for your other question, how and why I have chosen the star, called "earth", to perform on it the 
greatest work of humility for you and the whole spirit world, is enough for you to answer: If you have 
observed the construction of the fixed starry sky exactly with spiritual eyes, you will find firstly that your 
solar system, of which the earth is a member, is almost in the middle of this galaxy, and secondly that this 
very system with all its comets and planets is one of the most recent creations which originated from My
hand and is still in perfection.
46] You have read that over 6000 comets (which seems to you an immense number of them) are still circling 
around these suns. "What are comets?" (See "The Youth of Jesus", chapter 223). See, comets are also only 
world systems, which again become planets and earths, so that they too can once orbit in a narrower circle 
around their mid-sun, to the praise of all other harmonies of the spheres!
47] In your solar system itself you will find that the star set in the just order as the fourth planet, now 
shattered into many small pieces, continues its circuit. This star was once destined, as I said elsewhere, to 
become a witness of My power and love, to My descent into a world. (About the burst planet see GGJ vol. 4, 
chapter 106, 8; vol. 8, chapter 76, 74, 75.)
48] But he, or actually his inhabitants, did not show themselves worthy of such a grace, and so he was 
shattered as you still find him now, and the earth was then chosen to be a middle link between the front and 
back planets, witness to My act of humility!
49] When I say: "youngest solar system" you must not imagine this time in years, there are no years up 
there, no days, but time is My eternal law of perfection, which has no other measure than infinity itself, from 
which it comes and into which it again flows.
50] Therefore, the time of your planet's creation until it is habitable is not as old as those worlds which 
began their cycle before you, unpredictable times or eons of years, and where every conceivable year of 
yours, from its beginning to its present existence, would not suffice to give you an idea of the duration of 
such a globe, nor of its size, nor of its constitution, nor of its inhabitants. (Read "The natural sun" (nature of 
the sun and its inhabitants). Also the works "Saturn" and "Earth and Moon").
51] In this point the human mind must sink back into nothingness against My almighty will, against My
wisdom and against My orders, where, what exactly all of you do not understand, I create in endless space,
while you only know finite spaces!
52] all these worlds, although created, had not yet received a final consecration of the highest spiritual until I 
gave the impulse to become the last of your solar system, where then the material world, up to the veiled
spirit world, first received its purpose, its destiny and its mission!
78
53] After My descent to your earth and My returning home, only then a new era began for all created beings, 
whether spirits or men, on all worlds and suns.
54] What the former had as certainty, the others could grasp as a premonition, and so the principle of love 
was everywhere recognized and obeyed as a general law and anticipated in the case of less gifted beings.
55] Only through the great trial of My own humiliation did the consciousness of all living, thinking 
creatures first arise; for although they did not recognize Me as Father, as bearer of creation, as personified 
love, they revered Me as "great spirit", as a spiritual and not a material being.
56] Thus the great material cosmic man has received his spiritual destiny, so the spiritual man of the world 
has only recognized his own existence, why he, why matter is there and why I descended on a small grain of 
sand in the ocean of My creation to carry out the greatest act of love and humility among these small 
creatures!
57] Now that all this has happened, now the cosmic man, composed of the whole visible creation, is going 
towards his process of redemption.
58] The spirit world knows where it must go in order to attain the filiation of its Lord, and the material 
world, through the spirits bound in it, feels the need to force itself into it, from whose womb it emerged in 
order to complete the cycle of becoming, forming and perfecting. A chain, a bond entwines the two great 
worlds, the spirit world and the material world, a bond, a chain binds everything created to each other and 
connects it to the spirit world. It is the bond of love, the bond that the Creator drew around them all because 
love as a principle of preservation carries within it what was once won, its formation and further progress, 
striving and perfection.
59] Therefore, when your eye meets a ray of light from such distant zones of My creation in the night sky, 
think also that it is the ray of light, sent by the hand of love, which gives you knowledge of an immeasurable 
world far away, and that this ray of light just when it falls on your eye, from a world perhaps a thousand 
million fathoms away, embodies itself in your eye with your material self and you become a part of that 
(material) world, while you are walking on earth, in order not to be isolated, but to connect these distant 
worlds with the small planet earth, this ray of light is needed. (An important hint about the celestial 
influences).
60] Light is matter, as is your eye, and so the chain remains uniting, which expresses itself spiritually by the 
fact that a sensitive man suspects the gentle love language of these distant worlds, without knowing exactly 
why this ray of light is the bearer of love, which there, by My grace, after millions and millions of years, had 
to carry out his final mission in a human eye, why he had emanated from there.
61] O My children, how little you know My nature, how little do you know its language, how little do you 
know the interpretation of all these signs of love which come towards you from all angles, from above and 
below, and want to be understood by you.
62] the Great Book of My Infinity, opened before you every night, giving comfort and rest to the one who is 
tired of a hard day’s work with the hope: up there in holy peace will be retribution, will be love; and when 
during lonely walks in My beautiful nature the whole small animal family reveals to you through its 
testimonies of joy that it too is not insensitive to the effects of sunlight and the heat of the sun, both carriers 
of life and love!
79
63] Learn to understand this harmonious song, learn to understand what is coming to you here from a 
thousand voices, it is love, the unconscious feeling of comfort of millions of creatures, who, through the light 
of the sun - which will shine on their eyes and become theirs - feel the same gentle language as you thinking 
people, when on a quiet night millions and millions of rays descend from the starry sky, when the earth 
greets on its course around the Mother Sun, when it also sends you products from distant worlds through
your visual organs, so that you too should receive a faint inkling of the jubilation of these great creations to 
understand what I once said to My apostles:
64] "In My Father's House are many dwellings!"
65] Yes, many, innumerable and immeasurably great dwellings are in the House of My Creation, My
"steadfast love", all belong to it, to present My power, My infinity to finite creatures.
66] Even if the ray of light takes millions and millions of years to tell you of distant places where worlds 
still revolve, where love has not yet planted its boundary, then it is always a proof that, precisely because 
love is infinite, also its creations are infinite, without limits.
67] Therefore, you, My scribe, do not sink together into nothingness before the greatness of creation of the 
material world, do not be frightened of distances, of greatness which, however, your mind cannot grasp.
68] The one who put these creations out into infinity as witnesses of His power, His greatness, His love, has 
created all living creatures on them only so that they may all be witnesses, like God, a God of love, who 
understands how to make the incomprehensible comprehensible, how God understands how to remain the 
same even in the smallest atom as in the largest globe, in that both stand perfectly without any need for 
addition or removal in the chain of creation as to what they are supposed to be.
69] You too, My child, are a link in this great chain of all creations, you too are connected with the greatest 
central sun as with the smallest atom in the infinite ether, you too are in your place, must and will fill your 
place as it is arranged by My loving will.
70] Do not fail to grasp the greatness of My creation; I am great in everything, I must be great, otherwise I 
would not be a creator. if one judges you men according to your creation - well, judge me also according to 
what I have created, and if you have to take off your hats to some people because of his docility, as you say, 
also give Me the worship and the thanks that is due to me, not only because I have created and arranged 
everything in this way, but because I have equipped you among millions of other living beings with a spirit, 
in order, if not to fully understand me, but to sense My greatness by learning to understand the language of 
My works.
71] To understand the character of another people, to associate with them, you learn foreign languages 
because it suits your material interests; very well, to study My Community, My Character, so learn My
Language! learn to interpret this sign language of My nature spiritually, learn to measure, you descendants of 
a great Spirit, His love and grace, if He allows you to know His miracles - whether far away or in close 
proximity - and thus, instead of sinking together under the power of His greatness, draws you up like an ivy 
vine on the trunk of the eternal tree of life, absorbs life force from Him, which then makes you ever more 
capable to appreciate, love and comprehend Him through His words.
72] Become far-sighted, recognize in the distance first from My great book of life of the night sky My love, 
My care and My power, and these twinkling little stars will even tell you many things about the great 
80
harmonies in the construction of the world, which are repeated everywhere down to the smallest infusoria 
and everywhere connect the greatness of a Creator with the love of a Father for His children!
73] Worlds came into existence, and worlds will pass away, of which your eye will not learn, but the voice 
of the Father in every heart will not dry up as soon as that heart is open to her and receptive to her!
74] May the language from the starry world through telescopes or from the drop of water through
microscopes show you wonders upon wonders, it is always the same, only learn to understand it, and rest and 
peace, the basic principle of My creation, will enter your mind. My spiritual language within you will always 
accompany you and lead you from near to far or from far to close by, namely: from the last ray of light of an 
infinitely distant world sun to the seat of all love, to one’s own heart, wherever the same saying will read:
75]"Praise the Father! for He is, was and will be eternal: the God of love!" Amen.
(January 23, 1873)
76] You ask Me - how will all these worlds be created, furnished and populated?
77] You see, My child, this is another completely human question, and I must give you a human answer to 
this again, that is, I must show you that the answer is so close to your heart and it only your short-sightedness 
to blame if you have not yet found it yourself. So listen: You will already have seen from everything you 
learned, read and what I told you that everywhere only one thought, penetrating the whole universe in 
millions of forms, serves as its foundation and of course also finds its last solution in Me, as spiritual 
expression of all materially created things.
78] Even in My words from the beginning, given to the Fathers in the primeval times (newly published in 
the three-volume work "The Housekeeping of God" (The Prehistory of Mankind) except for the messages 
which you receive from Me today, there is consistency, logic or a correct conclusion, a regulated closure; 
cause and effect complement each other; gaps are filled in where they arise, so that the bond, which is to 
encompass everything, does not suffer disruption, no separation!
79] And it is precisely this consequence (persistent consistency), this interaction of everything for one 
purpose, which also makes the diversity of the world's bodies, suns and planets just as natural from a tree the 
branch, from the branch the leaf, the blossom and the fruit must grow.
80] It is not mind-boggling work, as you imagine as a human being, which I would have to, where, after so 
many worlds were created, I was at a loss to externally equip them, to populate them and to determine the
direction and course of life for the spiritual beings on them.
81] That which was the reason for how these worlds were distributed in space, why they were so large and 
in what chronological circumstances they were to fulfil their material cycle, their material destiny, one 
circling around the other - all this also conditioned their outside, their products and their creatures and beings 
living on them.
82] Behold, on earth where you live, there are also thousands of animal species, and yet, the individual 
animal creatures in the species are also often individually distinguished from each other on a spiritual basis.
83] This is also the case with humans. Millions of people live on the globe and yet none (completely) 
resembles the other, while the form as a human being is one and the same everywhere.
81
84] Not only in spiritual individuality is no living creature equal to another. And just as the creatures are 
different, which diversity depends on climate, soil and cultural conditions, where the spiritual difference 
between the members of the individual species is then conditioned and influenced by them, so with the 
worlds their external configuration, their products and their creatures are only the consequence of their inner 
construction and their mutual position to one another.
85] Just as in every creature there are organs, where some are destined for nobler, more spiritual, and others 
for material, coarser tasks, in the structure of the universe the individual suns, planets and comets are 
similarly distinct organs, which, according to their functions, are just as differently formed inwardly, as they 
are differently formed externally and populated!
86] Also in your body the stomach is only suitable for receiving food and not for breathing or like the brain 
for thinking, and likewise the worlds, which according to their position, distance, luminosity, warmth etc. are 
only suitable for producing such products, which are according to their position, and the creatures living on 
them, will also spiritually express what is materially underlying in the soil, which they inhabit.
87] So it is not the game of imagination that is part of populating worlds and endowing them with all sorts of
loveliness, for they already carry this impulse within themselves, it was inserted into them at the first 
moment of their material formation (design), as in the case of the child in the embryo everything is already 
predetermined and prepared what it is to become as a result of time, and where then only the circumstances 
and conditions of the outside world come into play, to accelerate (or even delay) this purpose.
88] So everything is determined by itself. As man, animal, plant and stone have created the seed within 
themselves to form what each is to become, so all worlds have the same urge to bring to perfection what is 
still sleeping in them undetected. Thus the diversity of the inner structure of a central sun is just as much the 
basis of its products and creatures as human beings can only produce humans, animals only animals and 
plants only plants!
89] The mathematical consequence as a correct sequence in which one must develop from the other, this is 
essentially present in Myself and can be found again in My creations because they are from me.
90] The emergence of the one from the other, the "if that is so, then this must become so" - this principle, 
guided by My infinite wisdom, is the foundation stone of the created universe, is the foundation stone of the 
spiritual kingdom of the world, is the basis of every proper way of thinking of a rational being, which then 
likewise only so and not differently, following My nature, can comprehend My creation and foresee Myself!
91] So you have to think of the world as a book of mathematical problems solved in a multitude of ways,
which of course can only be read and understood by those who are themselves mathematicians and logical 
thinkers.
92] Seek you - and all of you who read this and My previous word, strive to become that, and you will 
certainly succeed in bringing in a rule, to bring order into your actions, which in human terms is called 
reason, divinely expressed, is called "supreme wisdom".
93] Thus you will never miss your purpose and the means for doing so, and your life will then resemble all 
My organic and spiritual creation, where everything goes in order towards its destiny and everything is in the 
right place to promote at the right time the interaction of the worlds among themselves, the unity of the 
whole great creation and to certify the wisdom of its Creator at every step.
82
94] Let your life be like this too!
95] Just as the unconscious animal guided by My Hand fulfils its purpose, so you as free beings are to strive 
to also correspond to My intentions, which is why I created you and have set you on this and no other 
wandering star or sun! 
96] Thus only you are the true links in this great chain which, like the millions of different creatures on other 
worlds, fulfil the purpose of their existence, first of all physically training themselves, so as to provide the 
spirit within the most possible means for its high mission, which on all worlds all living thinking beings, in 
whatever diversity of human form, pursue the same purpose!
97] Here you have a short word to clarify your question and to reassure your curiosity.
98] In "Saturn" I have already given you an example of what another world can look like according to its 
dimensions and proportions, just as you know how close the other planets of your solar system are, of which 
your little world is also a member (to be seen from "The natural sun" and its planets, as well as in "Earth and 
moon"); even "The Sun" is not unknown to you. learn to read for the time being in those proclamations 
between the lines, learn to understand the cause and effect of one and the other, why it can be so and not 
different, and you will soon have the thread that will guide you safely in the labyrinth of My creation, but 
also will surely lead you out again, where then the end result of all your research will be that only your 
humanly weak conclusions were to blame if you did not recognize in advance that the solution, which you 
looked for in a thousand million light widths, was closest to you, not even outside, but within you!
99] This for the understanding of the great creation, which however has only arisen and will still exist, in 
order to redeem the former from the latter by means of spirit bound in matter and thus to return it to Me
purified, which was put out by Me helpless and weak into the great ether-space!
100] Open your spiritual eyes wide and let the Light of My Wisdom and Love shine upon you so that you 
may know everywhere: "There is only one Creator", "one God "and one loving Father", who lavishes so 
many graces on you, although, strictly speaking, you are not worthy of a single one! Amen.
Chapter 21
The Pyramid of Creation (January 15, 1872)
00] This announcement followed a question by the then publisher Johannes Busch regarding some passages 
of the word about the kiss (In “Love, the Basic Law of All Life”, p. 61 ff and p. 69) where it says: "and this 
is to be the spirit community, which will then be understood far beyond the short life on earth, when no solid 
material body hinders the vibrations of the soul anymore to unite with the beloved complementary spirit -
according to My laws - in order to give back to Me in infinite love what I have put into them".
01] Behold, My Son, these are the words which you quote in your letters, which stimulate in you the 
questions, what is this actually: "I am love in person", and how is the above to be understood from the words 
to you of December 24, 1871?
02] Now that I want everything to become clear to you and you learn to understand Me and My love as well 
as all words, which are already given about this word and are to be communicated even further, I want to 
83
lead you into those spheres, from where you can take a larger view as on a high mountain, where the horizon 
for your spiritual vision can be greatly expanded.
03] So go up with your spirit into those spaces where time and measure has long ceased to exist, into those 
distant places where no more rays of light from the worldly sun penetrate, to those places of the Great Spirit
world, where already in a single hair vessel (this spirit world man) your known, visible world system would 
fit.
04] Swing yourself up into those areas where there is neither left nor right, where there is no "down" and no 
"up" anymore, but where the infinite ether infuses the great spiritual man eternally in his course and where 
eternally only light is and darkness belongs to the unknown magnitudes.
05] There in that spirit heaven is My abode, from there I rule the whole spirit and material world, and how, 
to make it more understandable to you, your soul is also everywhere and yet nowhere in your body, but 
nevertheless has a headquarters in the midst of this body shell given to you and from there the needs and 
concerns of your body, also I am, although far away from you, but always close - guide you, lead and receive 
everything created by Me and thus direct everything, spirits and the world of matter to their superior purpose.
06] From this point of view, look at the whole infinite creation; look at this activity, this busy work, this 
creation and alteration, this gradual development from the last, smallest atom of the great infinite ether to the 
greatest angelic spirit, and you will notice that everything bears the stamp of divinity or imperishability, of 
eternity itself.
07] The greatest evils, the most glaring disharmonies you see dissolve in blessings, in graces from Me, 
everywhere you notice the same law, the law of approach and repulsion, like seeks like and loving embraces 
only beloved.
08] If you have now looked so attentively at this great clock of the world, then you must become more 
familiar with the general drive wheel of all this, this drive wheel, which communicates its power to all other 
smaller wheels, rollers, pins and even the elements of which these tools are composed, by setting everything 
in vibrating motion as a motor of movement, thereby continuing life, heat, light, continuity and decay, where 
from the latter something new must arise again, not something already existing, but something higher, better, 
spiritual.
09] Now, this great drive wheel is My will of love, is that power which constitutes Myself, from which I 
create everything, guide everything, and in which only My spiritually divine personal life consists.
10] To make all this clearer to you, I will show you some examples from the area of life on earth where you 
can notice the same; for you have and cannot form anything, do nothing that does not have its roots partly in 
My spiritual, partly in My material world.
11] See, for example, a musician, a painter, a mathematician, a natural scientist, a mechanic, etc., if these 
people live quite simply for their life professions or devote themselves entirely to them, you will find that 
you could read in their soul lives how all that imposes itself on their attention refers only to their favorite 
inclination.
12] The musician listens to the wise, as they resound against him everywhere in nature, finds spiritual 
nourishment everywhere, for him everything is music. The painter searches for the forms, for colors into an
84
aesthetic whole, which he then wants to communicate to his fellow human beings as a picture for spiritual 
stimulation. The painter is all form, all color.
13] The mathematician sees in nature only his mathematical lines, his mathematical laws, just as he reduces 
(attributes) every movement, every occurrence to his favorite science. An example of this may be the English 
astronomer Newton, who saw an apple fall from a tree and discovered the laws of gravity or attraction.
14] The natural scientist lives in the periods that My creation has gone through until, for example, your earth 
was established as a place of residence for men; he does not wander on footpaths, but on remnants of the 
destroyed and reconstructed earth crust; he sees in the rock, in the water, in the atmosphere not stone, not 
water, not air, but the primeval materials from which they are composed, the elements which will again in 
their dissolution bring forth new connections, new things interesting for him. He is only an observer and 
researcher according to My laws placed in the material world, which, when he discovers some, he 
communicates to the other people for their material well-being.
15] The mechanic sees only moving forces and their laws, recognizes everywhere only the rigid "must", 
why this must be so and so, he overhears the power of moving nature, seeks to exploit it to his plans, builds 
and lives only in machines, and so the chemist in the decomposition and fusion of My world substances.
16] Just as all these different people look at nature and its laws with different eyes and usually only seek to 
exploit them for themselves, so also the soul dwelling in you is only concerned with your body, its health, 
and if it is spiritually awakened, also more attentive to its spiritual development.
17] See, for example, if in a person's body a small error, a small disturbance of a function of the organs 
appears, how quickly the soul seeks to correct this error. Like ants, when they are threatened by danger, it 
sends blood wave after blood wave to the damaged place, so that rapid assistance comes, it accelerates the 
metabolism, in order to restore their dwelling. You call this urge of the blood "fever" and "inflammation" and 
believe to have an illness in front of you, often inhibit it by force, which would have slowly led to a balance!
Now, just as the soul also lives only for its body both spiritually and materially, so also I only live in and for 
the world created by me, and after I created everything out of love, so I live and I am also completely for 
love.
18] As the previously mentioned experts only dedicate their whole life to their favorite ideas and 
inclinations, so also I, since I am always concerned to preserve what has been created, to spiritualize what is 
bound in matter and to return the spiritual to Me purified by matter.
19] Because I have now created the world, both the spiritual and the material world, the next question is -
why and for whom?
20] This question is now answered by the law of love. I created the world, animated it with intelligent spirits 
to double the pleasures of the latter - My own! So you must understand love in its deepest sense, as it is made 
up, so hear: Love is affection for something. To incline means to bend, to deviate from the straight line and 
to form a curved line. When now two such curved lines unite, they will finally close and it becomes a circle, 
an ellipse or an egg-shape, which then without beginning and without end, expresses infinity, therefore My
being, Myself.
21] The straight line denotes selfishness, the bent line - charity. The straight line searches and has no 
association with a line parallel to it. The curved one, on the other hand, approaches the other, can unite with 
it; we then connected the image of a whole figure, composed of (corresponding) two. This figure is the 
85
spiritual correspondence of the spirit and material world - with Me - and is the equivalent of the union of two 
loving beings to one thought, in which they complement each other as in the form of a circle or oval, where 
one curved line complements the other one that approaches it.
22] The point of unification, the eternal holding together and moving towards a common goal, is the kiss, 
which wants to achieve the same unification already in the body world, where it is however not permanently 
executable.
23] Here you have settled some of your doubts. Now we come to the second part, how should you imagine 
this union of My spirit world with Me?
24] See, as many atoms exist within infinite ether, also so many spirit-particles exist; because no atom is 
without life, that is, in each one dwells a spirit put in by me, which then must begin its round journey, in 
order to once again come back to Me with the consciousness of its divine origin.
 25] All these spirits, who are so gradually pyramidically directed towards Me at their top, have their various 
tasks, which they must solve, if an advance is to be made possible.
26] But the more these (still raw) nature spirits approach My (personal) spirits, the clearer their 
consciousness and their vision of where they are becomes, what they were and what they must become. This 
intelligence grows like with you from the sucking child, which still carries with him an unconscious plant 
life, to the mature man, where, as one of your celebrated poet’s says, the little one, namely the cradle, is too 
big for the infant, and when he himself has grown up, the infinite world is too small for his inquiring spirit.
27] Thus also the idea of Me and My creation progresses further with the degree of knowledge.
28] Not that an angelic spirit really sees Me as I am personally (as absolute God); for no created spirit 
endures this, but every spirit sees Me as its inner being (that is, how he can endure it). According to the 
spiritual level of education of each one, his ideal, Myself, is formed and only in this way I am equally 
accessible to all, because everyone can carry Me in his heart, as he senses Me and as I can be grasped by his 
knowledge.
29] See, for example, the infant at the mother's breast, does he understand his mother's words of love, her 
gentle gaze? - No, he doesn't understand anything about it; only with time does his cognitive ability grow and 
so gradually the connection and mutual love, which, however, is usually understood quite differently by the 
child, until the loss of the mother makes him feel the full value of a heart sacrificing itself for him.
30] As is this love, so is the love of My creatures to Me. All move forward, first of all recognize My creation 
more and more, and according to this knowledge also their love will be.
31] Since everything in My creation has a purpose, why it is there, so of course the whole great spirit world 
is also created to help according to its destiny and its intelligence in building up, maintaining and promoting 
the lesser to something higher.
32] As with you also an entire state building is only what it is supposed to be through the cooperation of 
many, also in My spirit realm there is no standstill. Life is the basic principle of everything that exists, and 
this life is nothing else but activity! Just as the material world is formed by the vibration of its individual 
atoms or molecules, and just as great things are formed from small things, so is also the same law in spirit 
life - work must be done everywhere. Rest would be tantamount to death, and there is no actual death in My
creation.
86
33] Therefore, according to their intelligence and spiritual height, also the spirits are instructed to have 
spheres of activity, where they also contribute progressively to the advancement of other worlds, other 
beings, have constant practice to partly improve their moral spiritual level, and partly contribute to the 
existence of the whole, to give themselves an eternally lasting bliss and to always give pleasure to Me.
34] But so that these spirits have a measure of how far they can fulfil the divine qualities and whether it is 
possible to fulfil what is demanded of them, I therefore decided through My incarnation, through My
incorporation into this small shell of an earthly person, to give proof to the great spirit world that whoever
wants to carry the divine within himself and wants to make use of it, as befits them, can achieve the greatest 
end purposes in the smallest, the greatest effects in the smallest.
35] Thus My Incarnation, with its humiliation, denial, and self-sacrifice, became the measure of worthiness
for all those spirits who wanted to see in Me not only the Creator but also the loving Father.
36] Thus the foundation stone was laid for the great building of the spiritually possible height that a created 
being can reach. The bond which was to hold everything together - love - was first more firmly bound by My
act of humiliation and sacrifice, the like-minded were drawn closer together in order to walk the path of 
perfection together. And just as in all creation nothing is perfect (well relative and conditionally perfect in its 
kind, but not absolutely perfect), except me, so every clear-sighted spirit felt the deficiencies that clung to 
his being, he therefore sought the missing in other spirits, sought to supplement the same through the 
connection of himself with another, so that he might then learn from the other spirit what he himself lacks, 
and have around him a constant example of what one spirit can be and become in relation to the Creator and 
Lord of all infinity.
37] As progressing, complementary, always feeling the same as Myself, only to a finite degree, the spirits 
strive upwards, always according to My laws of love - the higher they rise, according to their deeper insight 
into My creation, are used for greater missions where, purifying themselves more and more, can also open 
the way to Me for others.
38] This is the great teaching purpose of My spirit world, its constant occupation and its actual task.
39] As in Me the Trinity as a whole personifies itself, namely - love, regulated by wisdom and carried out by 
perseverance (will), likewise with them the triad exists as an important main factor of their being progressing
- and hoping, that is, in the consciousness of what they are, in the certain way what they are to become, and 
in the firm confidence that they will achieve this also with constant contemplation of Me.
40] Just as with you an entire State has a multitude of officials of a lower and higher kind, all of whom must 
contribute to maintaining and directing the whole State building, as do My spirits with their various missions 
all of whom are involved in promoting life, activity, progression and development, only with the difference 
that while with you and on every other world the subordinate can give false reports to the superior about the 
state of the sphere of activity entrusted to him, in the spirit realm no covering of thoughts is possible and the 
superior can clearly see through the subordinate. The world of pretense and lie does not exist there, but the 
kingdom of truth, where I stand at the top as their original prototype.
41] Thus the series of levels of spirits is bound in matter - with a limited sphere of action and limited 
foresight.
87
42] Free from matter - with unlimited authority of will and with divine intuition of the unattainable! Eternal 
striving and eternal progress, eternal birth and eternal transformation; eternal elimination and eternal 
absorption: eternal life and eternal change of form!
43] Thus My spirits bring back to Me the Divine sent out before eons of time on slow paths of purification,
tested, humiliated and capable of greater expansion.
44] When you thus let your gaze wander out into infinity, what a busy life you see there, what lively activity 
in and outside matter, in and on the great worlds as on the orbiting suns, planets and comets. Everywhere the 
same purpose, everywhere the same result: spiritualization of the coarser, redemption of the bound.
45] And what moves on eternally in matter and the spirit world, lives and passes away and generates itself 
again, what happens in the great as well as in the smallest material atom, you also find this in yourself, in 
your life, as in the Great Spirit World.
46] The same seeks to be supplemented by what is lacking, hunger seeks food, thirst the saturation of its 
need, and then, united with what is lacking, it rises again further and higher (which is all represented) in the 
form of a pyramid, at the top of which I as the final stone, the broad base of the last point, hold everything 
together, overlook everything, and for all I am the culmination of their longing.
47] It is no coincidence that the ancient Egyptians chose the pyramid shape as their tombs and school 
buildings. The pyramid was well known to them in spiritual correspondence, it was the most suitable form of 
the expression "all for one, and one for all! or Pir-ami-dai (In Gr. Ev. Joh. vol. 4, chapter 206, 5 and vol. 5, 
chapter 72, 3: Pira mi dai - Give Me wisdom!). Just as in the pyramids, an equal pressure is exerted from 
above on everything underneath, just as in a pyramid all individual components are not there for themselves, 
but for all, so also in the spirit world none is for themselves. No one works and lives only for his own 
advancement, no, the preservation of his own self is indeed necessary, but it is necessary because of the 
preservation of others, because of the preservation of the whole. 
48] Even in the pyramids, the masses are basically denser, more compact and of a firmer nature and the 
higher up, the lighter, the smaller the dimensions, until finally a single light stone, serving the whole work as 
the final stone, its crown and end. Pyramidal is the spiritual progression from the big to the small, but also 
from the heavy, the material to the spiritual. And just as in time the stones of the pyramids will decrease their 
height by the pressure from above and will probably even once disintegrate to dust, in which the final stone
which was on the highest point, will also be moved ever closer to the base – likewise in the spirit realm by 
the perpetual spiritualization of the lower, the distance from me to the lowest spirit will always become 
smaller, whereby I, like the final stone of a pyramid, will once also arrive very close to the remains of the 
base, - but what will I then find there? 
49] It is no longer the great mass of the pyramid base, no longer hard rock, but material, which, just like its 
former existence, is preparing to enter new life through other connections, which, while the first connection 
was hard and firm, is now usable and capable of absorbing the lighter and more spiritual things and thus 
undertaking a cycle of new stages, which are to have me, as the former keystone above them, then to have
the guide, leader and father among them.
50] Thus creation was once pyramidal and through My descent to your earth the signal was given to 
spiritualize this form, to dissolve it, so that nothing is distant but everything is close together with me and 
through My teaching can begin the way of the spirit and perfect itself.
88
51] This great unification feast has begun, at least for you people living on this small earth whom I once 
designated to be My children.
52] The top of the pyramid gradually descends, the unattainable approaches you to introduce you 
spiritualized into His kingdom, into the great kingdom of the Spirit World, where there is then no below nor 
above, but only a center, I and a crowd of loving spirits around Me is - and will be eternally! (A shepherd 
and a flock.)
53] Here you have settled your questions as to how they can be comprehensible to you. Yes, there is and 
must be an infinite ladder of steps as the spirits ascend to Me where they must all work together to increase 
My glory and better comprehend My love.
54] Also You, My son, will one day see your spiritual destiny more clearly and will understand him even 
more what he is, what his love is, because he and his love are infinite and therefore can never be completely 
grasped by created beings, but to suspect that there is an everlasting progression. - But you can neither see 
nor reach the last rung of these step ladders of created beings: for I have such, and from there I completely 
overlook what you, spirits and descendants of Me (individually more and more, but always only partially) 
can recognize depending on the height of your step ladder.
55] Forward! is the keyword in My creation; everyone works - with love, through love - to love! Amen!
Chapter 22
The Creation Story (April 16, 1871)
01] Since your brother so eagerly "wants to get from the night - to the light," as he expresses himself, I want 
to grant him this request and thus show him the way, which he has long been following, but still is not 
clearly aware of everything that has already been said and taught to him on this way.
 02] Now see, My dear Son, since you have long been working in My Garden and untiringly spreading the 
seed to all four parts of the world - behold, some things have already fallen into your hands and you have 
understood them, but not quite understood it as I want, and so also this question of your last letter is again 
proof that you have understood neither My spirits nor worlds nor human-creation quite correctly in its 
deepest sense.
03] In order to make all that you are asking Me clear to you, I do not have to tell you anything new, but only 
explain to you the old, already given by Me in various words, in more detail and remind you of forgotten 
passages, which will then guide you out of the labyrinth so that you (even in it) "come from night to light". 
Well, so listen:
04] You will remember that already in the "Household", where it is about the creation of the spirits and 
material world, I said that first the spirits and from and among them the greatest - "Satana" or Lucifer was 
created, which the latter instead of light bearer, together with his companions falling away from me, has 
become bearer and representative of darkness.
05] You will also remember that I then, in order to pave a way for these fallen spirits to return, created the 
material world, clothed it there in matter and thus again, although involuntarily, compelled it to undergo the 
school of humility and denial.
89
06] You will also remember that, after the path has been indicated in this way, on which the spirits, from the 
hardest mass to man as the last stage of material creation, can ascend ever more purifyingly; but that in man, 
however, as you mention, "three days before birth, a small vesicle of the finest, most solid soul substance 
("See "The Redemption" in "The Path to Rebirth") encloses the once evil spirit, in whose innermost, 
however, the actual spark of God’s love itself has its seat, which then firstly gives this evil spirit spark the 
opportunity to develop itself for good, and secondly also always drives it towards this".
07] Now, see, if you only think a little about what has been predicted, the question must arise in you: If this 
spirit is inserted into this vessel only three days before birth, who then trains the body of the child up to this 
point? Who took care of his inner, who took care of his outer form and constitution as a human being, so that 
at least all the means are already available, which would be needed to make a person out of it according to 
My purpose?
08] Behold, here I must answer you:
09] Have you forgotten then that all fallen spirits bound in matter constitute matter itself!
10] Who is now the sculptor of the child, from the embryo to this time before birth? See, these are the same
nameless spirit parcels, which - as a spiritual process guided by the mother-soul - themselves carry out the 
development, construction and establishment of the child's body, but which, as in a plant or other material 
product, carry out the material structure there according to their species.
11] The child, before it is born, has a plant (vegetative) and no intellectual life nor consciousness; it is 
developed by the spirits according to its species like every animal in the womb or in the egg. But as soon as 
the withdrawal from this inner world approaches and the plant life of the child is no longer sufficient, then 
the great step has to be taken which distinguishes man from the animal, there the actual initiator becomes this 
apparatus ready to further intellectual construction, I have placed a timer and conveyor into this vessel, that 
is a spark of that great spirit, which here in the small one has to lead the infant child who comes out of the 
darkness of the womb, as you say My son, "from night to light"!
12] This spark of the once apostate great spirit of light has however tendencies of its origin in itself, as the 
way of men is always the same, and that is to move forward from the bad to the good, alone – as also in the 
great fallen spirit only My love spark lay, which was misunderstood and abused by him, likewise in this 
small once fallen spiritual spark lies that ray of My love which can never be destroyed, which then begins its 
own where with the child's leaving and separating from the mother's life, as in the great Lucifer, the conflict
between good and evil begins (as human life), which is only the product of the struggle of these two 
opposing principles and tendencies (inclinations).
13] In this way the purpose of life and spiritual progress is secured, from night - to light! So that’s the way it 
is, and the world must preserve itself.
14] It is quite natural that in the beginning, when the first man Adam was created, it was not possible to do 
so. For just as the first plant, the first beast etc. without seed, without birth had to come directly out of My
hands, that was also the case with man. He too emerged directly from My hand, was created in My image, 
had a different organization, a different form and different mental facilities in this period of creation. He was 
destined for a longer life if he lived according to his rules, which I also gave to the spirits and Lucifer or 
Satana himself as "should" and not as "must".
90
15] This solitary life of the first man was not conditioned, but it was already not only foreseen, but it lay 
within My own self, that I had to give him a being, which should feel with him, think with him, and so
bearing sorrow and joy together, they should continue to walk the path of life and testing together. 
16] Even I Myself did not want to live alone, only conscious of My power. That is why I created beings who 
then could delight in My creations, rejoicing, doubling My joy of being a creator.
17] So I created the spirits, created great images worthy of Me - and what happened to the greatest of all?
You know it, he fell, fell away from Me - and what happened to man? He, too, fell away from Me. Both 
Lucifer and man did not respect the law of love, wanted to go their own way as free beings, and so the law of 
love had to lead in other ways, but still to the common goal.
18] Satan or Lucifer transformed his love into hatred, arrogance and pride. But the actual spiritual qualities 
of the man were of Luciferian descent.
19] In order to make it easier for man on the one hand, but on the other to give him more opportunity to train 
his spiritual faculties (abilities) more, to strengthen them and in this way to become more like me, I took this 
perverse love, that is self-love, which wanted to tend more to evil than to good, out of the man and put it to 
his side as a companion, companion and propagator of his own sex and his species.
20] Thus the woman was created, equipped with all the physical and inner charms that I had once put into 
Satana to shine as a type of eternal love in creation; and so also the woman, as independent, should fight 
against her own self-love towards the man, obey, and ease the man's burden of the path of life.
21] The only thing I withheld from man as My image and made it the cornerstone of the whole spiritual 
building of the world was sensual procreation.
22] This should not take place in the same was as animals, but in the same way as spiritual beings (as for 
example with the people in Saturn; see the volume "Saturn"). I alone released man from his will. The 
principle of Lucifer, the principle of opposition, won him over, which I foresaw and then had already 
determined everything in advance. I only wanted man and spirits never to blame Me but only themselves, if 
their desired bliss was not achieved in the way they, and not I, wanted to go.
23] The Satana used these attributes of human nature, seduced man, and made him part of the complicity of 
her own case, in order to behave consistently (persistently) with her fallen spirits as the antithesis of me.
24] So the world with all its facilities was changed so that this greatest step of Lucifer, or the Satana, became
the greatest advantage of My spiritual construction: just as the fallen spirits have now even more to 
contribute to promote My kingdom and to facilitate their own return. Creating free beings, free from God, I 
did not have to diminish this freedom for them either. And when finally Satan wanted to gradually break 
mankind away from Me through the charms of women and the ambition of men, I had to set limits to the 
germ of evil by a partial destruction of the human race, through the flood of sin: had to remind people again 
that I am the Lord and Satan is and will remain only My servant.
25] When Satan then made promises to Me of return and at least apparently gave up his activities, I put him 
to the last test. I Myself decided to expose Myself in human form to his temptations and in being a whole 
man to convince him by actual proof that all his efforts are in vain, that all fighting against My will and My
holy laws is in vain.
91
26] I became a man, preached and taught, under the constant influence of Satan, My gentle teachings; he
enticed men to the greatest and most bold sin, namely that they should kill their Creator and Lord in the 
flesh, which they also did; and precisely because of this they crowned the greatest work which I as God had 
long ago foretold and foreseen to show My spirits and men with the example what they did not want to 
believe through words.
27] Now the world again goes so far in its satanic activity that with the help of Satan it once again wants to 
eradicate all the seed of the Divine; because Satan can show two tests of My patience - only he also knows 
about My coming again especially to this earth; he knows that I did not let Myself be crucified in vain a 
thousand and so many years ago; he knows that I do not want to leave the work undertaken by Me
unfinished; and so he now still does everything possible, robs men of everything good and blessed and drives 
them into material misery, where then My kingdom as the last anchor of salvation will appear again shining 
and where then again not his plan but My great work for peace will be crowned.
28] For the great love will again take all the lost into their arms, will reward them with good deeds for the 
evil they have done, and especially believe to have done evil against Me, and will offer them the hand of 
forgiveness; and all men will then understand that they have not played the greatest and worst trick on Me, 
but on themselves.
29] That will be my triumph. Thus the love that once created the first spirits and beings will again press these 
lost beings to the Father's heart with the same love as once the created spirits; and Lucifer, going out with 
empty hands, will again have to admit that he, like men, did most harm not to Me but to himself.
30] This is the triumph of truth and love and the wisdom associated with it, that out of the surrender of one's 
own will, out of all the freely practiced evil or good, the end result is always the same, that is to say, the step 
- "from night to light!".
31] Now do you understand, My Son, My creation of the spirits, of Adam, My Incarnation and your own 
salvation! Look, My child, this is how you must understand these things.
32] In all My Words there is infinity and if doubts sometimes arise for you, take a Word from Me and with 
reflection and My help you will soon also be driven from night to light, where you will see in the light your 
loving Father with outstretched arms, who calls out to you and everyone: "Come here, all of you who are 
laden, that I may take away your burden and refresh you!" - Amen.
Chapter 23
The Symbol of the Cross in Creation (February 1, 1872)
01] In My last Word I have shown you how the form of the Cross should be understood in spiritual 
correspondence (see "Passion Garden"). I have further proved to you how between spiritual striving and 
worldly action the cross form again expresses the work of one against the other; I have taught you how in 
this form figuratively always two opposing forces, be they material forces, be they spiritual qualities, always 
seek to cross each other. I have also shown you the way which you should walk under the burden of the cross 
when human, worldly conditions "cross" your spiritual direction. And now I want to open still further to you 
other depths where exactly this cross as a symbol of My humiliation and glorification is either clearly 
represented or hidden in all forms of the created beings, and show you how even in the course of the worlds, 
92
in the form of their orbits and in the material and spiritual cosmic man this form always shines out; so that 
you may see that it was not insignificant in My way of life that I, the Creator of all that exists, had to suffer 
the bodily death just in this way, where, as with My birth, also the circumstances and places contributed to 
designate the descent of the supreme being, so also his going home in the manner in which it happened was 
worthy of the Creator of all beings and bore the stamp of divine qualities.
02] For you have to well consider that the type of death by which I was to "breathe out My spirit" according 
to the concepts of men, was not just the closet one, but that such a way of death had to be chosen, which for
men should bear a sign of shame, but for Me it should bear the sign of divinity.
03] Now see, the shape of the cross as it existed when I was attached to it was such that the crossbar cut the 
main beam not in the middle but in the upper third.
04] This average in the upper third is also not without meaning, but, as with the worldly cross, of great 
importance in spiritual correspondence.
05] For as little as a man could be nailed to the cross if this crossbeam did not correspond with the height of 
his arms, it is also in spiritual terms the living condition of the existence of all worlds that precisely this 
average point in the orbits of the world falls into the upper half, because thereby the purpose of the 
preservation and continuation of their own existence is secured.
06] In another word I once explained to you how the oval, ellipse or egg form is the form in which worlds 
revolve around worlds, systems revolve around systems, and how almost all forms of created things, small 
and large, can be traced back to this form. I have also told you how in the great cosmos, spiritually or 
materially, in one of the focal points is My seat from where I direct everything; furthermore, that this focal 
point and movement factor is also always the most important in all world orbits, wherever the central suns 
are located, and that even in every created thing this spiritual point exists as an attraction point , which 
connects both the smallest atoms to a large body, and in the large spirit and world-creation-man is the 
junction of all life (see "The Earth" ("Earth and Moon"), chapter 1 about the center of gravity of the Earth).
07] Now, if you look closely at this egg, ellipse or oval shape, and if you draw lines from its two focal points 
against its periphery which vertically intersect the great axis of the ellipse, an egg or oval, you have again a 
cross formed from the great axis and the radius of the circle, which is used in the construction of this oval 
shape and is actually its main factor
08] In the ellipse or oval form, where the circles - described from the two focal points are the same - it 
doesn't matter how you look at or turn this ellipse, it is always the same form. In the egg it is different, you 
get to see two circles, one of which is a big one, the other a small one. As I explained in the egg, "there the 
small is the more important spiritual carrier of life and the larger is the less significant, material preservation
factor. There the material spreads out in wide orbits over this focal point of the great circle, and here (at 0) 
everything unites and approaches the smaller, but spiritually more powerful circle, from which the whole 
periphery of the egg form and the other large circle is dominated. (This egg is similar to the pyramid, above 
the smaller, but more important, and below the broad matter-base).
09] Now, if you want to look at this figure of the cross in the great structure of the world, you will find that 
the vertical line erected on the focal points or midpoints cuts through the periphery on both sides, at the top 
where the circle line completes its semicircle and the egg-shaped extension of the whole perimeter line then 
gradually leads to the small circle.
93
10] So this point is where the transverse line breaks through the periphery, passing through the center, and 
also divides a body moving on the periphery line into two halves, as soon as it arrives at this point.
11] Now the question arises what is in the spiritual correspondence of the great axis of an ellipse, oval, or 
egg shape, and what is this other transverse, intersecting, opposite direction.
12] Now see, after all world systems in the form of the egg, together with their satellites (companions) of 
earth, moons and comets, again move around other larger central suns, then this large, upright axis designates 
the spiritual direction of all spirits bound to matter and the transverse line, which goes from the focal point to 
the periphery, to always provide the material tendency of spiritual resistance, even to stop at the average of 
the periphery.
13] So here again two powers, the spiritual and the material, are fighting over their lasting existence.
14] In the great world systems the focal point of the small circle is always the more powerful, spiritually 
taken, around which the planets and suns are driven with greater speed, while in the great circles in the far 
distance their movement is in decline.
15] Here, near the small circle, spirit develops in rapid flight; there in the great circle, in slow progression, 
material things progress.
16] Here the line that passes through the focal point of the smaller circle meets the periphery of the egg form 
in close proximity to its center; it is the divine that cuts through or touches the spiritual, and there it is the 
spiritual that seeks to spiritualize matter.
17] What is established here in the elliptical or egg form in every planetary system and is repeated in larger 
systems can also be found in the worlds and spirit-men, where the direction from the feet to the head 
expresses the spiritual and that of the extended arms corresponds to that of the material direction.
18] It is the form of the cross which, as two different directions, awakens, conditions and sustains life and 
thus secures the existence of all created things.
19] If you look carefully at the human form, you will find that if you think of a man with his arms 
outstretched like a man nailed to the cross, you can also draw a line through the end points of his body, that 
is, through his head, hands and feet, which corresponds to the egg shape.
20] Only the difference is that here the large circle falls where the head is and the small circle comes to 
stand near the feet.
21] This should be understood as follows: The great axis of the egg form determines the spiritual direction 
of man, from bottom to top, from earth to heaven, from material to spiritual! It is this direction, as that of a 
created being, which opposes Me and My spirit world; for with me it was said - from the spiritual to the 
material, from top to bottom, and with man from the material to the spiritual.
22] Therefore in man, the great circle passing above and around his head denotes the great material creation 
that spreads over his head into infinity, as the starry sky of the night shows.
23] There the focal point is his heart, as the community of the spiritual with the world, and the organ of the 
mind the head, which, subordinated to the heart, should not act independently, but only helping the heart. (So 
the heart lies here at the upper crossroads as the main focus of life, spiritually - as love, and in the soul as 
will, to which the other focus corresponds and thus describes the spiritual humility corresponding to love, 
94
while in the soul as such the corresponding focus is sensuality, psychically as a sexual system. Looking at 
this scheme on a scale of spiritual values, it is easy to see whose spirit is a child, depending on whether a 
mental or spiritual or - according to today's fashion - often no focal point at all, but even the "eccentric" brain 
prevails. (See "The Antichrist," in: "The Second Coming of Christ," p. 62.)
24] The extended hands are the average point or the line of opposition of all spiritual actions and aspirations 
through spiritual and worldly passions.
 25] So it is the focal point of the great circle that plays the main role in man, while the smaller one does not 
exist as fixed, but only as the divine spark is given to the spiritual ego of man in order to spiritualize it.
26] In the animals you will also find the shape of the cross, as in birds, flying insects; in the four-footed 
animals it is also the same forces and spiritual focal points, only in the latter the main direction is parallel to 
the earth's surface, and their double points of intersection, like their four feet - still doubly attached to the 
surface of the earth - according to the purpose of their existence, and the instinct of their spiritual direction.
27] In the confines of nature, the animals are still guided from step to step by their instincts, the material 
direction is the predominant, the spiritual-emotional the subordinate.
28] Even their hands, destined to be "handled" by man, are still used as feet, as supports of the whole, and 
only a few except the monkey species can use them for anything other than walking. With them the form of 
the cross is certainly there, but not used for the purpose of expression as with man, where in him only the 
spiritual-emotional principle is free and yearns more and more for spiritual development. The more the cross 
form multiplies with insects and worms, the more you may recognize how often the material cuts through the 
spiritual path and thus oppose the higher development and lets it only be carried out on many and slow ways.
29] Thus the cross form is first of all: bearer and founder of the egg or ellipse form; secondly: the only factor 
of moving life, of the preservation and existence and the constant stimulus to greater activity, to further 
advancement on the spiritual level up to Me, as the highest final goal of all created spirits.
30] See, as with your globe, an axis exists which runs through it from south to north, but not as you see such 
on your figuratively imitated earth globes, but as it is to be thought from one magnetic (not mathematical) 
pole to another, where then in the upper third part another force runs through it, that is to say the force of 
intelligence and spiritual abilities - so you also see these parts of the world, which lie in the upper third part, 
more spiritual, more awakened, because they are urged to the higher spiritual life by this force opposing 
them; while in the south the material part as if asleep still lacks these abilities more in the half dream life, 
and, as in a dream, probably possesses a more beautifully equipped (natural) world, but taken spiritually it
can be compared to the imaginary creations of the dream life in comparison to the awakened spiritual mind 
and emotional life.
31] Just as your globe also here shows the form of the cross, so it expresses itself everywhere in the 
existence and passing away of matter, in the spiritual as a direction upwards or downwards; only in the 
divine there is no longer any opposite direction, for there is as a base for all that is created a stability, peace
and eternal established basic principle: only, although striving for a purpose, to calculate according to love 
and wisdom, where the latter conditions and modifies the former.
32] But while the cross everywhere indicates the struggle of two opposing directions, love and wisdom are 
united in the Divine to the extent that two lines running parallel, which - striving for the same direction and 
the same purpose - have only the eternal existence of the created as their purpose, and just love and wisdom 
95
or My own self finds its satisfaction in it when everything created by both recognizes its purpose and its 
mission correctly, and when love in this way sees its thoughts realized through wisdom - sees the spiritual 
sparks put out as primitive ideas return as luminous stars. 
33] Thus the cross was, is, and will remain the symbol of spiritual and material life, where always the 
product of two opposing, intersecting factors as a result should be a higher spiritual level, from where one 
direction upwards should always be more powerful, the other one cutting through it becomes weaker, shorter 
and more powerless - until also in the transfigured spirit only two concurrent potencies, wisdom and love, 
have become its guiding principle and, all influences of material events ceased, the spiritual alone will 
continue the way of the transfiguration.
34] In this form of the cross the great triumph of the spiritual over the material, figuratively represented by 
My crucifixion, lives on eternally; this form, taken spiritually, forms the school of your test life; this form of 
the cross is the life factor of My world systems, My spiritual and material great cosmic man.
35] Everywhere it is the predominant form, for it requires two fighting elements, and through struggle life 
arises, the eternally progressive life struggling to higher levels.
36] Up! As I was fastened to the Cross, as a symbolic image of the earth directed towards heaven, also 
upwards, after this Great Spirit world is the great urge of all beings. Forward! unconsciously it pushes the 
smallest atom of ether like the great angelic spirit in the spiritual realm; and only through the divergent, 
crossing secondary directions, which does not let anyone achieve what he longed for; precisely through this 
inhibition the urge of resistance, struggle and finite victory is aimed, through which the material, spiritual 
and divine world can exist and continue.
37] Therefore, even under the cross or under the pressure of worldly circumstances, do not forget the 
principal upward direction. There all resistance ceases, and you too will find your heavenly Father in the 
form of the Cross, standing upright, with outstretched arms, who wants to welcome with love all those who 
have not forgotten Him and His teachings under the cross, as a symbolic image of suffering and struggle, 
during their apprenticeship!
38] Therefore honor the Cross! Which in the great scale of My creation and in the small one on Golgotha 
contributed to My glorification and which will also help you to spiritual exaltation through humiliation.
39] It is the symbol of suffering; therefore remember My words when I once said: "he who humbles himself 
will be exalted!" 
40] Also the Jews humiliated Me, then raised Me up at the shameful crucifixion, but they did not understand 
the spiritual glorification which they brought about by this exaltation!
41] What was felt and suspected by only a few in those times, you can now clearly see before your eyes; I 
showed you how also this form and its later pictorial expression as suffering and struggles, as a spiritual 
cross, is the only way to me, which I gloriously preceded you and on which you are to follow with humility; 
because also your humiliation will one day become the greatest exaltation with me, and you will then realize 
that not enjoyed pleasures, no, but surrendered sufferings can give the delight of a blessedness which I also 
enjoyed when I, My mission completed, returned to My love and showed to all My angels and spirits that the 
cross is not a stumbling block but a sign of victory for whomever wants to undergo it patiently! Amen.
96
Chapter 24
The Beauty (February 3, 1872)
01] A weighty, profound word understood by you in different ways.
02] If it were not for Me to initiate you and all My newly arriving children of the future into the secrets of 
Myself, My creation, yes even My wisdom, I would leave you with your concepts, which are as many as 
there are men on earth.
03] And yet, if at all a concept, an idea is passable among you, even though it is interpreted differently 
according to the peculiarity of individuality, it must have a basic basis, a basic thought, on which all other 
concepts are only offshoots or variations - just as in a tree its branches receive only from the roots and these 
themselves receive from a center all their activity, their whole life, just as these individual ideas depend on a 
basic idea.
04] In order to now make this basic idea clear to you and to prove to you through it, where after all the seat 
of all beings and visible things lies, I therefore want to lead you in this respect into those spheres from where 
all beginnings originate and where all once again return to connect to a whole.
05] Now look! Words are visible or, as you might say, audible expressions of a spiritual thought or an idea 
wrapped in words; words therefore always - as products of another power - have their beginnings, their roots 
elsewhere; Words express the living, the spiritual, the divine, and precisely for this reason their effect is 
eternal, and the Apostle Paul was right when he wrote to the Corinthians: "All that is glorious will pass away, 
but God's words will exist forever!
06] Words, like a seed, are the eternal seed of further seeds, words are a tremendous driving force. look at 
your whole life, the history of mankind and finally at My Teaching itself - where is there a greater effect in 
all cruelly waged wars, which destroyed much materially and could not build up anything spiritually, in 
comparison with the Word; there is an infinite depth in the Word, because of this John also said: "In the 
beginning was the Word, and the Word was God!
07] The Word is and was the bearer of creation, is the bearer of your spiritual life, is the bearer of all 
progress; without word no spiritual life between human beings is possible.
08] The word unites souls, draws them together in worship of a higher being or goal.
09] The word is the only comprehensible bridge where one person can make the other understand what is 
going on inside him.
10] And even through the gaze, the pressure of the hand, a hug, etc. holds even greater things and cannot be 
translated into your language, it is only the word, which, as articulated sounds, produced by means of the 
voice tools and the air surrounding you, makes it possible for you to give a quiet concept of the depths that 
dwell within you, to your neighbors and the whole of humanity.
11] Therefore, first deepen yourselves into the idea of what "word" means, so that you can then more easily 
grasp what a word wants to say, which, as none embraces My whole creation, is pronounced everywhere to a 
greater or lesser degree and finds its actual solution in Myself, as a perfect whole.
97
12] I had to send this explanation in advance so that you would not so easily accept the words I am sending 
you, but quietly foresee what, under one word, are the treasures of unpredictable enjoyment when one has 
learned to delve so deeply into them.
13] In this way entire books could be written about single words, which are the visible or audible 
expressions of many concepts or ideas.
14] Now, in order to understand the word "beauty", we must of course begin with the question: what do you 
actually mean "beautiful"? Here the answer will be: Beautiful is a term of a certain impression that has a 
beneficial effect on the soul by seeing a spiritual idea expressed in the harmonious harmony of forms.
15] This seeing of the harmonious or, as you say, "aesthetic" forms is so individually different, so dependent
on the level of spiritual formation of man and his inner being that "beauty" allows as many interpretations as 
there are people themselves; for even if some or many people agree in their judgement of an object, be it 
whichever one they want, it is not the same view of all, but only because so many (human) souls more or less 
see their idea realized, which they had of such an object, where however each person does not believe to find 
the object itself, but to find in the object what he carries as an image within.
16] So the harmony of forms is actually what determines the concept of beauty.
17] Now I ask: how must these forms be then, that they evoke such an impression in man, and why do they 
evoke it?
18] Behold, the circle of the concept of beauty is becoming ever narrower and therefore, approaching its 
center, becomes easier to grasp.
19] In order to answer the first question, I must remind you of an earlier word, where I used the two lines, 
the straight and the curved circle or oval (egg), as the main bearer of all creation and also as symbolic 
correspondences.
20] Of the qualities mentioned there, however, there is not only the material and the spiritual, but also the 
divine meaning, namely - curved, undulating lines are products of love, products of wisdom that join 
together precisely to produce forms.
21] So too the impression of sculpted objects. Those composed of round, curved, undulating lines have as 
their overall impression that of the lovely, those composed of straight lines resemble those of the serious, of 
wisdom.
22] As I said in another word, that a curved line resembles love, which seeks help, compassion, so that the 
line existing just for itself suffices itself and personifies wisdom, as the crooked, inclining line expresses
love.
23] As now in Myself - love paired with wisdom, united to a whole, where I am creator, judge and yet 
father, you see in your temples, churches and buildings, which are all to serve as an expression of a spiritual 
idea, where one wanted to build "a dwelling house for Me", the seriousness connected with love; hence the 
high impression such monuments make on you, where in them you find the thought of God merged into 
straight and curved lines. (These two types of beauty, the beauty of love and the harmony of the universe, 
visible in the original forms of creation in the pyramid and in the egg, as male and female, are also the main 
types of churches, in the more male Gothic (with pointed forms) and in the Romanesque style with arches 
and domes, and in the letter types of those peoples who are the main representatives of these directions, in 
98
Germanic the straight line, corresponding to the i, the n-hooks, as a triangle, the masculine; in Romansh the o 
or the oval form, the feminine, in some the brooding, ideals, in others the more sensual, ingenious than the 
natural contrasts of the two main carriers of culture.)
24] Here the artificially formed matter speaks as proceeding from the innermost part of the soul, realized by 
the mind.
25] I began here with the greatest works that human hands can accomplish, now,, like yourselves, pass from 
those to My own creations; for even you, if you did not know what difficulties it costs to build a dwelling, a 
house of prayer or a palace, how much study, talent and perseverance, how much effort of strength it takes to 
construct buildings, you would not appreciate My buildings: your earth, the visible planets, moons and suns.
26] But in this way, feeling your own powerlessness, you first recognize the omnipotence of your Creator; 
and it is the height of Him who is, however, in the end, only in the "smallest of the greatest"!
27] Since now that My whole visible nature is only a repetition of everything that you men want to produce 
artificially, and you cannot create anything that you have not seen before in My creation and of which your 
inner being always carried the original type (the archetype) in itself for a long time, then of course also in My
nature everything makes a pleasant impression on you which corresponds to your inner being, where you 
have more or less individually developed the study of forms.
28] So the more an object, be it artificially produced by you or already unsurpassed in My own creation, is 
spiritually present within you, the more the feeling of well-being awakens in you at its sight, which you then 
call "beautiful".
29] The finer this sense of form is in man, the more beauties he will discover in what he has created, where 
the useful always goes hand in hand with the beautiful.
30] In this way, however, only the more spiritually educated, or in other words - the one who lives more in 
the sphere of love discovers everywhere beauties in forms, in harmonious relationships, where another passes 
by indifferently; hence the different concept of "beautiful", because it always depends not only on the object 
but also on the spiritual inner man of the beholder.
31] If you would be able to judge men spiritually, it would be easy for you to recognize his inner being from 
what a man finds beautiful or ugly, to what extent he possesses love; for the more love, the more the lover 
seeks this characteristic in all objects, which awakens his own love and gives him the pleasant feeling of 
"aesthetic pleasure"; for he, without knowing it, spiritualizes the forms standing before him and sees 
precisely where another sees only matter, the expression of a love that never withers, which also in the 
greatest and smallest only wants and can provide blessed enjoyment.
32] If we now apply the term "beauty" to the last product of the earth or of the worlds, namely to man 
himself, here again the idea of beauty is as different as there can be spiritual stages in the human soul.
33] Just as the sight of a beautiful woman can lead to the highest enthusiasm, to the highest love and 
adoration, because here he sees the image of love, of innocence expressed in forms, standing before him -
likewise these forms can only arouse sensual animal feelings in another, which are not inherent in the form, 
but are put into it by the beholder.
99
34] You can well imagine that when I created the first man, when I formed him in My image, I put 
everything into his forms that was possible to express a divine idea in human forms. I formed the man as an 
expression of strength, according to wisdom, and woman as an expression of mildness, according to love.
35] Both were to become spiritually united what I unite in Myself, that is, love paired with wisdom, so they 
were to hurry towards the unification act of the highest spiritual level, where they could enjoy the purest bliss 
bound by the urge to the third, to Me, because every joy of one would have found its expression in the other.
36] Thus My first or last work on the worlds, from the last atom to man in form, was always developing love 
and wisdom, and in the human form it developed into a harmonious whole, into that form from where the 
smallest curve line of the body the greatest spiritual idea should always shine forth and want to call out to 
everyone:
37]"Remember that you are formed in My image, in the image of a God, in the image of unlimited love and 
wisdom!”
38] That men as free beings then desecrated, abused and corrupted this form was a matter of their free will; 
but they will not be able to enter My kingdom until their outer garments, however fine the fabrics may be, 
bear the type of a pure, beautiful soul. Just as I once put man as My image out into creation, so he must again
come back to Me, that is say spiritually and physically beautiful, where the outer covering is the imprint of
the divine spirit living in him. 
39] According to what has been said you can see how versatile the view of the word beauty is, so also is the 
way, which all spirits and souls have to go through, until they reach Me, that is to say get near Me and bear it 
unscathed.
40] The concept of the word beauty clearly shows you the nameless gradations that exist in the spirit realm;
This concept clearly shows you how people, like nations, fall or rise at their spiritual level of cultural; for 
with each higher level a new, more beautiful, more spiritual ideal of the word "beautiful" is formed.
41] Beauty is the expression of love. Nothing can actually be beautiful that is not good, because since the 
form itself is only the shell of a principle living in it, only that can be called "beautiful" where the exterior 
corresponds to the interior (and the latter is "good").
42] Although nature and conditions adorn some creatures so that their first appearance has a charitable 
effect, this effect is often not lasting on closer acquaintance, and instead of enthusiasm regret occurs because 
the beholder easily notices that the exterior does not correspond (coincide) with the interior.
43] A spiritual eye sees everything spiritually, and only a material eye can find beauty there, where it can 
admire nothing but its own self in another form.
44] So true beauty in its purest and deepest sense is only the outflow of a divine spark, visible in material 
form.
45] Since now I am only love and this love paired with wisdom has created this visible and invisible world, 
so also in it, as it came out of My hands, only love and wisdom can reign.
46] If man has falsified these primordial types and sees only in rare cases in one form or another such 
unification of supreme wisdom with goodness and love, it is not My fault. I created a world full of angels, 
the devils made man out of it!
100
47] But since I have not created in vain, and only recognize it (the created) as I thought it, these primordial 
types must be given back to Me, whether sooner or later, time has nothing to say about it, for it is an eternity 
always long enough!
48] So if all of you all devote yourselves to conforming to My ideas of the beauty of the soul, then also the 
outer garment in this eternal world of light will turn out in such a way that it will be a pure, spiritual-imprint
of your innermost being for you.
49] This is the concept of beauty as I have brought it back to its root, to Me, to My Love.
50] Everything that came out of My Hands is beautiful. Only to an unsightly mind are those forms 
indifferent and incomprehensible, which let the imprint of the divine shine through them partially or 
completely - hence the great degree of different concepts of beauty. And as I once said: "Everything is pure 
to the pure", I now add to this: "Everything is beautiful to the beautiful"!
51] Here you have another word spiritually explained before you. Understand the fullness of the spiritual of 
such a word, and you can have a small idea what it is only in the language of the spirits, where with every 
word the whole infinite meaning of it is felt through and sensed, and precisely through this the spiritual 
language is conditioned, which sometimes also - but only in highest moments will it flood past your spiritual 
ears to inspire you, to see clearly spiritually and learn to hear more effectively! Amen.
Chapter 25
The Light of Worlds, Suns and Stars (May 4, 1873)
01] Earlier I have often told you about the word "light", what light is and how it develops, how it spreads 
life, excites life and is life itself, as some say (See in "The Fly", chapters 9 and 10), and yet you know little 
about light, do not yet understand what light is, and for this very reason a new word should explain to you 
what has often only shone through dimly from the earlier ones and allowed only a few to suspect that light is 
an emanation (outflow) of My own self or I Myself!
02] Few of you are concerned with it or have the desire to deal with the laws of physics as far as it (the light) 
occurs on your earth. Few feel the urge, depending on what the ray of light actually is, which in every second 
when it hits your eye and penetrates it, could tell you wonders about miracles, how My creation should be 
understood and how much already only one ray of light contains love and joy, which should show you your 
Creator in His most beautiful glory - as a loving Father!
03] You are all blind, blind to the smallest, blind and insensitive to the greatest work of love, which always 
bears witness to Me, to My greatness and to My omnipotence!
04] And that's why in the everyday encounters of human and material life out of habit My miracles are not 
noticed, are not judged, then you are to be stimulated again today by this word to awaken from your lethargic 
sleep to perceive the spiritual of creation in your immediate surroundings, as the caressing ray of light from 
your sun and the same stars, millions of miles away, connects you, even through it, with My whole material 
and spiritual world!
101
05] You should learn to understand and comprehend how the spiritual kingdom, My own place of residence, 
should once also receive you, draw you closer; that you may know what a single ray of light can tell you, let 
alone what a world of light will tell you!
06] look, My children, I only want to ask you one question to prove to you how little you know! The 
question is: "What is light?"
07] Well, the answer according to your human scientific discoveries, according to My words given to you 
will be limited to the following: Light is an "emanation" (emanation = radiation: from Latin emanation -
exhalation), produced by rapid, even trillions of vibrations of the smallest atoms in an instant, which then, 
first by heat, then in the light, as a result visibly reveals itself to man!
08] Scientifically it is said: light is passed through a prism and can be broken or split into color rays; each of 
these color rays is shaped like a three or four-edged sword, where one edge always behaves with the opposite 
electrically positive or electrically negative; there are also dark rays in the light beam that your researchers 
have qualified as "heat rays".
09] This is all well and good, but I must raise yet another question, for this answer is not enough for me; I 
ask your natural scientists and astronomers: "Where does the Light come from?
10] To this they reply to Me: "From the sun, which is a fiery sphere and which in the process of combustion 
develops the brilliance of its outer atmosphere, namely light and warmth, and sends the same to us on earth 
and to the planets and comets surrounding it and thus life, activity, development, existence and decay of 
everything. 
11] Well, this answer also has its truth, but it is not enough for Me, I continue to ask: where did the sun take 
this light from? Is it borrowed or its own light?
12] Look, here it already begins to give opinions of different kinds, and here already the human mind shows 
its weaknesses; for they are merely hypotheses which can be made, but certainty is lacking, because the 
closer examination of sunlight lies outside your realm and all the more so the light of another sun, which 
perhaps not millions but trillions of miles away gives it light to illuminate your sun and thus spread its 
splendor on thousands of other worlds subject to it.
13] And even if you could actually prove that your sun receives its light from one star or another, the 
question still remains: and from which other distant sun did it again receive its light? and so out into infinity.
14] Since therefore you men cannot come out of this tangle of questions, I must put Myself in the middle 
and, instead of seeking the reason and the solution of your question in spaces billions of miles away, 
beginning with you from the near, explain the distance for the time being.
15] Now look, let us start again from the beginning, namely with the question: "What is light?" and "how is
it known? and why must it be there?
16] You know - light comes from the vibration of atoms, the colors also come from the trillions of vibrations 
of matter, and depending on the number of these vibrations the colors become visible to your eyes - well,
what stimulates matter to vibrate? what gives it life, that it manifests itself as life through such violent 
vibrations and trembling?
102
17] Behold, here now the basic principle of all creation appears and tells you: The moving element, which 
penetrates everything, makes the whole etheric space tremble in such tremendous vibrations, is:
18] My Will ("Earth and Moon", Part 2, "The Moon", Chapter 6, and in this volume the two chapters 
"Magnetism" and "Electricity". "The "Lorber Encyclopedia of Natural History", p. 29 and 90), is My Self, is 
not materially conditioned but spiritual, unconditioned, is not transient - is infinite life!
19] It is this great spiritual life of Myself which: according to love, according to wisdom, manifests itself as 
color as warmth.
20] Without this My almighty will no atom would tremble in the great etheric space, no heat would develop, 
no light would be emitted!
21] And why does this happen? some may ask. This question should also be answered: because light - life, 
and darkness – causes death.
22] What is darkness? or is there a world where darkness prevails: if there is life, is it conceivable where 
darkness, synonymous with "rest", would have to remain in a state that was eternally the same?
23] You have never understood what "darkness" actually is; for if you no longer see, that is not yet darkness, 
but only relative, for your visual organs. For example, there are many animals who still see quite well where 
it seems to you the deepest night; so where these animals see, there must also be light, only not to the extent 
that you are accustomed to qualifying light and darkness.
24] It is the same with warmth. Which one of you has already determined or measured where heat ends, 
where the heat-inducing vibration of the individual atoms has stopped.
25] In your coldest regions there is still warmth, although you call it "cold" with so and so many degrees.
26] So this absolute darkness does not exist anywhere, cannot exist in a creation in which I am the Lord and 
Creator of it.
27] Light is synonymous with "knowledge"; for as only in light is it possible to recognize objects, to see, so 
too is knowledge in accordance with consciousness: I recognize Myself and can judge the world around me.
28] This spiritual cognition, which gives creatures, be they spirits or physical beings, their own moral value, 
drives them to perfect themselves - this cognition can only be possible in the light, in the spiritual light of 
Myself, since in darkness neither spiritual recognition nor worldly would be possible!
29] As the word came to you from the story of Mosaic Creation where I said: "Let there be light", so in this 
saying you may recognize the whole great meaning which lies therein - for without light, without daylight no 
material life, without spiritual light no higher life!
30] If you could thus look at My whole creation, you would have to draw the necessary conclusion from it 
that only where light, where the millions of miracles which certify My omnipotence can be perceived - only 
there, only in the light of a creator, a loving father is conceivable!
31] Thus the first word "Let there be light" was the first impulse of all becoming, the first beginning of a 
material creation and the first thought to a spiritual eternal kingdom of light!
32] "Light", as the spiritual equivalent of the recognition of all beings, was necessary, and precisely this 
word, which caused all atoms of the ether to vibrate, which caused life and warmth - just this word produced 
103
also in the spirit realm the innumerable descendants of me, who are capable of light (and love), that is to say
consciously recognize themselves, My world and My love.
33] This light, emanating from Me, through all spaces urgently, all animating, created the material world, 
clothed spirits in matter in order to free the former again from the latter, but under different conditions!
34] Light, synonymous with My eternal life, was in Me and always filled Me; only when I pronounced the 
word: "Let there be light" did it begin to radiate through all the unlimited regions of ether and stimulate 
matter to live, to attract, to repel, to unite, to separate, to arise, to pass away. Without My Word", "Let there 
be" and "Let there be light", no sun would have shone in the firmament, no giant world would have swung 
around an even larger one.
35] Only My dictum "Let there be" and My word of love "Let there be light" was what populated the infinite 
ether, which filled the visible world with miracles and which gave the impulse that beings clothed in matter, 
remembering their origin, only understood - why they were clothed and why they must again strive for 
liberation of the clothing.
36] Thus the world first became visible and for the spiritually gifted not a material conglomerate of 
substances, but a great school of examination, where spirits, eternal light spirits must strive to go through 
different stages to reach where they started from, that is to me, the creator, who created everything with 
equal love, wants to preserve it and also lead it to spiritual perfection!
37] Thus, world light is synonymous with world life; for the worlds, living in the light, spread light and life 
in their environment, enliven matter, and awaken the spirits dormant therein, pulling them upwards - and so 
the light which one world sends to another is nothing more than the joyful trembling of matter, which, 
aroused by the warmth, informs the enclosed spirits of the loving hand, which has enclosed them in the 
former, but also wants to free them from it!
38] It is this vibration, this spreading of light, which radiates from the spirit world into the material world, in 
which it manifests itself in the most distant suns - and expresses all divine qualities accordingly in vibrations 
as a bundle of colors.
39] It is not for nothing that the legend goes with you that certain colors correspond to certain spiritual 
qualities. It is a feeling that runs through the soul when it imagines in the rose-colored light the ray of love, 
in the green the ray of hope, in the blue the ray of faith.
40] All prismatic colors have spiritual meaning and correspond - according to the vibrations they produce -
to the actual effects of My divine qualities!
41] For it is in all that is visible - just as it is in the colors, and more than in other things, in terms of My
love, My grace, My wisdom, My humility - and if "white" is the color of innocence, this is to say nothing 
other than that in the unbroken ray of Light, as a white ray, all the divine qualities are united, which, as they 
emanate from My Spiritual World up to you as stars or sunlight, are united as a white ray, are to admonish 
you that you too, clothed in innocence, carry all other divine qualities in you, which however are only 
partially applied when they come into contact with other beings, just as the white ray of light millions of 
miles from the sun refracts into its rays of color only when it strikes material objects and through such grace, 
gives shine and shimmer to the objects!
104
42] This is the spiritual chain that connects the smallest worm with the last universe that circles at the 
borders of My spirit world.
43] And if a ray of light from distant stars falls upon your eyes, consider that if your eye was not of a solarnature, you would not notice the sun!
44] In your eye there already rests in its various humidity’s a world of light, which homogeneously (akin) to 
the light sent to you by the whole universe also evokes in you the life or the same process which the light 
causes in the whole creation.
45] Your visual organ is one of those mediators who lift the soul with and through the visible to the spiritual 
and invisible.
46] Hence the saying among you: "The eye is the mirror of the soul". Yes, just as the infinite material world 
is reflected in your eye from outside, to the same degree your spiritual world shines through it.
47] What you unconsciously receive from afar through stars and sunlight, radiates again spiritualized out of 
the small visual apparatus and thus connects infinite worlds as matter with infinite spirits clothed in matter.
48] Light, material, awakens light, spiritual. The Light shows you My creation in its wonderful charms to 
awaken spiritual light in you.
49]"Let there be light" it once resounded into all the wide spaces and "let there be light" I will also call into 
your hearts.
50] Yes, there will be light - in yourself! so that you may recognize Me, My creation and My love, so that 
you may understand that light, synonymous with love and wisdom, brings the whole universe to life, 
stimulates all atoms in immense vibrations, and this trembling is not a painful but a delightful one.
51] Let there be light in your mind! warmth develop in your hearts! and so too - as in My creation through 
light My thoughts, so in your switching and ruling your actions will become visible, which like My creations
should carry the stamp of love, the stamp of wisdom!
52] Feel exalted, My children, when you see the world around you in a rosy morning glow or when in the 
night sky millions of stars and distant worlds send you the "greeting of consecration"!
53] Seek to initiate yourselves into My creation secrets! Learn to understand the great book of My Universe, 
My World of Light, that it may also become light in you and that you may recognize the same love and the 
same wisdom in the ray of light of a distant world, as well as in the ray of light that shines on a dewdrop, 
which once called out to the slumbering elements: "Let there be" and to increase the pleasure of the 
consciousness of the created beings, which added light to it. Light, yes light! Infinitely great, spiritual, shines 
out from all towards you. Light is what the barely born infant strives for, and it is light, spiritual, eternal, 
despite all barriers of death which still shimmers through the coffin lid, where it will be clearly proven that a 
God, a Father, who endowed the world, the whole universe with such wonders, who has woven everything in 
light forms and light garments, will spread light again and again even at the end of the material 
decomposition of a spirit garment - only insofar different that during the course of life much material, little 
spiritual, then after falling away from the material shell no material, but the more spiritual light shines on 
you, the more the spiritual light shall lead you to the original source from which all light rays emanated eons 
of time ago and to which all light rays, both spiritual and material, must return again.
105
54] "Light!" My children, "Light!" your call will resound one day, as with lost sailors on the high seas after 
long yearning: "Land! Land!" sounds. Just as everything then joyfully embraces itself there, since one 
discovers the destination of travel, so the call for light will resound in you one day after the end of this life,
when you reach other conditions, other spaces, where your material sunlight here on earth will only shine 
like dark street lamps in comparison to the love light which shines in those places where spiritualized 
creatures enjoy their victory over matter!
55] In order to accustom you to this light, which already shines, albeit sparsely, but in some people already 
in earthly life, in order to illuminate the way to it for you, in order to teach you the spiritual light, the great 
factor of My creation, I spare no effort to also call into your souls: "Let there be light!".
56] look at nature, look at the worlds, the stars, even your sun - all testify to the spiritual, eternal light, the 
light that spreads warmth and love from Me wherever it occurs.
57] Let it enter your heart! Recognize from the objects which are enlightened with material light, the 
spiritual which calls out to you from these visible witnesses of My power and My love:
58] "Illuminated by the light of the sun, we enjoy our existence, everything rejoices, trembles, vibrates, be it 
in silent splendor of color, be it in bright song of praise. Let yourselves also be awakened, O beloved ones of 
a God and a loving Father! Recognize from us only the spiritual living through visible light, God's light 
within yourselves, recognize the chain or the gentle bond which connects everything and hastens from the far 
away spirit world in the form of thought, then from the last universe as material light brings the spirit 
greeting materialized as a ray of light to your eye, which is to announce to you that there is only one God, 
one Creator - but also only one loving Father, who realizes the spiritual through the material and also does 
not deny the last little animal, which crawls its way in the dust, and you too, wants to make your images of 
his own power into carriers of light, disseminators of spiritual light! But to become this you have to 
understand yourselves first of all what light is, what material light is, what spiritual light is; only then can 
you also communicate to others what lives in you!
59] Thus all nature speaks, so I speak to you, that you may understand that "light" is synonymous with 
"knowledge", according to consciousness: I am not from this world, I am from another world, I am not an 
earth citizen, but a citizen of heaven, only placed here to practice My faculties (abilities), which up there in 
the eternal light are only "commonplace"!
60] Therefore let the light penetrate through your physical eye, to awaken your spiritual inner self so that 
you understand My love, which wastes so many words to kindle a little spiritual flame in your hearts - while 
with a word of power it has lit up suns of immense magnitudes, which have material of the miraculous in 
vast dimensions, but yet cannot be compared to the only self-confident spark of God, which can exclaim 
standing in the middle of creation, while from Myriads of worlds the rays of light fall upon his eye:
61]"I am chosen to become a child of your Creator, for Me it happened that He once gave His life, there He 
denied His spiritual light to kindle in My heart the spark which, an offshoot of Him, shall be purified,
transfigured and returned to Him!". 
62] So let there be light in your hearts! Every dark place, every doubt, every shadow side shall disappear; for 
where I shall once dwell, there it must become light - light is truth, light is love! Light is warmth or 
enthusiasm for the divine! You are to acquire these qualities, it must become light in you! And also this word 
should again contribute to this, to show you how even in scientific discoveries and research only spiritual 
106
light is hidden, but which is only given to those who, in the midst of material or chemical processes, 
recognizes only the former as necessary in order to grasp the spiritual!
63] When the dying person lies on his deathbed and exclaims more often: "Light. Light" because his senses 
gradually darken and become weaker, he is prompted by the urge, because "light" also means "life".
64] Now, when you are also in the process of divorce from the material to the spiritual; now the call often 
arises in you too: "Light! Light! Spiritual light!" Here I give it to you, receive it into your hearts!
65] Let the sun of spiritual truth shine there so that also there it turns dark into light, so that the love, the 
light of grace of My words warms and invigorates you and that you may recognize in every one of My words
how important it is to Me to educate you to be light bearers, to be children of the light, since unfortunately so 
many children of darkness are roaming on this earth right now
66] Light, worlds, suns and starlight, it is all the same - it is the great stream of spiritual love light that 
animates great worlds there in great masses and drives small spirits to perfection.
67] It is the same light which, radiating from afar, awakens similar things in the visual organ of the living 
being and evokes them through material spirituality! Thus matter is spiritualized, and thus matter returns to 
Me one day, from which it originated.
68] Spreading light in the immeasurable spaces, this material splendor fills by the refraction of rays in 
colors, which causes the spiritual light in words.
69] My light makes matter vibrate and My Word makes spirits tremble!
70] Thus is the vibration of the light and heat generators, disseminators and perfectors, and My Word the 
stimulus to good thoughts, decisions and blessed actions.
71] Therefore, in your pilgrim life, be diligent in radiating as much spiritual light as circumstances permit, 
so that as little people on your small globe you may carry out what I am doing in the great universe!
72] There I am the great disseminator of light, and that is what you are to become here in miniature! But in 
order to radiate and spread light, one must possess more of it than one's needs requires!
73] Therefore, strive to draw the full light of the Spirit from My words and that, although you communicate 
it to others, you may still have enough left for self-advancement!
74] This is the purpose of My words, the purpose of My direct message to individuals, in order to spread 
light where possible, before all the moral darkness sets in, which unfortunately already holds more than 
three-quarters of living humanity in its arms and wants to lead them to eternal spiritual death!
75] The source of My direct communication still flows to you, nor do you have words of comfort, love, 
Enlightenment and the Light of Mercy, alone, but it could also happen that this source denies you its service, 
and then it will be far more difficult to obtain light, since you did not want to see with such an amount of
light.
76] Not curiosity, but the desire for divine things shall inspire you; for the more you know, the more light is 
within you; and the darker it becomes from outside, the more each one needs his own spiritual light!
77] So - watch and pray! So that you do not fall prey to the sleep of darkness! The daylight makes many 
things less terrible for you, which at night grows in your imagination into huge shapes; and spiritual light 
107
makes you feel less terrible about the events to come: because the light in you is the light of mercy from Me, 
which - the more the world light darkens, the more beautiful it shines!
78] I would not have to be an almighty God if My Light could not rule over all darkness!
79] Trust only in My guidance, My spiritual light, and you will soon see that My spiritual light of love and 
grace will guide you to become what I have created and educated you to be, that is: to mature inhabitants of a 
spirit world where shadow and darkness are missing and only the eternal light of love is to shine for you and 
lead you to your loving Father! Amen.
Chapter 26
Orion, Sirius and the Pleiades (1) (December 12, 1875)
01] A few days ago, when you were about to close the windows of your room in the late hours of the night, 
you were looking at the constellation known to you as "Orion", next to which, at a short distance, Sirius cast 
his bright light towards you and on the other side the so-called "Seven Sisters" or "Pleiades" reminded you of 
your youth, where in the military education center (or "cadet school") you often looked at these stars in the 
winter evenings with a foreboding sense, without knowing what they are, where their light comes from and 
how they always show themselves in those spaces in the ether at the same distance from each other.
02] Times and years passed by, many a winter passed over your head with its joys and sorrows, and now, 
almost at the end of your earthly life, you again looked at these constellations, and if once only your soul had 
a notion, now a spiritual view has partially opened to you what as a young man you could never have 
understood!
03] Thus, My Son, the young man matures into a man and the man into an old man, so ideas and concepts 
change according to life experiences and intellectual education; so the blossom and fruit of the seed once 
planted gradually ripens, and so many a man is gradually educated by Me to enter the spirit kingdom, in 
preparation for higher missions.
04] That's happened to you, too: trained through many adversities, you gradually learned to "endure" 
(tolerate), you learned to exercise humility and gentleness, you learned to recognize and walk the path which 
alone leads to Me, and so now as an old man or mature man you again stand before a piece of My creation, 
before a constellation, and recognize in these luminous worlds the great and mighty spirit, who quietly leads 
such enormous masses freely in space; and thousands and thousands of years may still pass, so they will still 
appear to the inhabitants for what they are now: flickering stars on the dark horizon at night.
05] You and the whole human race with your short lifespan, what are you against such worlds! what is your 
earth against such a star! Even your sun, which is almost a hundred times larger in diameter than your earth, 
even this is only a grain of sand against Sirius or a star in Orion; what are you then only in comparison with 
the inhabitants who populate those stars! In physical size probably also only very insignificant, hardly 
visible; but more in spirit than they are.
06] If I were to describe this world, its surface, vegetation, formation and its light to you, you would sink 
into a nothing before the splendor and glory of these creations and then you would understand all the more 
what human pride is actually worth, which is so inflated for some here on earth.
108
07] At most these explanations alone would calm your curiosity; but morally and spiritually not further 
promote (advance) you, since just as spiritual men you should also recognize Me in the smallest, and it is not 
yet necessary to crush your imagination by recording creations, of which despite the explanation you could 
not grasp or comprehend the tenth part; because you always have to consider that you are men and 
everything else must be difficult to understand beyond your horizon.
08] So much I only tell you that these stars, which for you form the constellation of Orion, are of immense 
size, and that a mass of other worlds move around each of these stars; and that Sirius, as the next fixed star 
for you, is the very sun around which your whole solar system must orbit, that - while your sun has hundreds 
of thousands of miles in diameter - the diameter of Sirius must be measured by millions of miles.
09] From this you can reasonably conclude that everything on these worlds must be arranged in such a way 
that the necessary relationship between the animal and plant world also requires human creatures that go 
beyond your conception.
10] By the way I have to note that Sirius, as you call him, is far closer to you than Orion, millions of miles 
away from him, and the Pleiades, a complex of stars of more than five hundred suns, even further behind him 
in his glory.
11] I will not even speak of the great "nebula in Orion", for it is just a magnificent globe of shells ("globe of 
shells" is the name given to the grouping of decillions times decillions of suns that move in great and farreaching orbits as central suns of the first, second, third and fourth class with the countless many planetary 
suns, like the one of our earth, all around a common, immeasurably large center, which is also an almost 
endlessly large main mid-sun. (J. Lorber in a footnote to the Great Gospel of John, Volume 2, Chapter 57.) 
See also "Heavenly Gifts" Volume 1, p. 118 (jl.him1.118). "From Hell to Heaven" (Robert Blum), vol. 2, 
chap. 296-300 (jl.rbl2.296) . vol. 2, chapter 57 (jl.ev02.057), 139 (jl.ev02.139); vol. 5, chapter 115 
(jl.ev05.115); vol. 6, chapter 248 (jl.ev06.248). "(Natural History Lorber-Encyclopedia", pp. 67-70), which 
only sends its glorious light to you after many thousands of years (that is, as long as the light takes) in the 
night darkness between the stars of Orion!
12] See, in this constellation of Orion alone stands before you a small piece of My creation, of which the 
first star, Sirius, is in closest interaction with your solar system and thus with yourselves.
13] The Orion, seemingly standing behind him, shows you in regular lines a constellation, which is also 
connected by mutual attraction at immense distance and always shows you the same picture, and then the 
Pleiades, a small shell globe in another large one leads you even further distances, and finally the nebula in 
Orion reminds you of distances, where your numerical calculation already has no more digits to express it in 
an approximate way!
14] And do you perhaps believe that where this nebula turns into star complexes, already the end of My
creation is? Not at all! Far behind it worlds float in free space, whose light has not yet been able to penetrate 
your eyes since the creation of the earth; and even if it happens, they will hardly be visible to the inhabitants 
of the earth with the sharpest telescopes.
15] The boundary of My material creation is still far from being set there, it goes on and on, from nebula to 
nebula, forming, perfecting, dissolving.
109
16] There in those spaces even your measure of time is no longer possible, for what is your year! Moses 
already told you, "with Me be a thousand years as with you only one day", and I add - even these thousand 
years are still too small for a calendar of My creation!
17] Thus, My Son, your eye penetrated those constellations with spiritual gaze, flew through the immense 
spaces just like the thought, recognized in that gradual distance the slowly progressing course, like matter 
from the coarsely bound to the finer, from the psychic to the spiritual, from the spiritual to the divine - your 
spiritual gaze included in this constellation My omnipotence, My greatness and My love; for the same life 
that moved your slowly pulsating heart in faster beats, the same life looked towards you in the flickering of 
such distant worlds.
18] In the light you recognized the bearer of life, but also the reason of love, for without light there would be 
no life and without life there would be no ability to think. To understand the wonders of a loving father, one 
must first be able to see them, which leads seeing to feeling and then to touching.
19] So for you the flickering of starlight was your father's love whisper, and you remembered your youth,
when you sometimes looked at those beautiful stars questioningly and wanted to say to them: “What are you, 
lovely lights, on the dark horizon of the world? Thousands of years on earth passed by, and many generations 
passed by and knew as little as I did, and in thousands of years on earth their inhabitants will still see you 
rising in winter in the east and will know just as little as all their predecessors! Impenetrable veil! Nothing 
but suspicions and not an inch of certainty!"
20] So you often thought when these stars stood on the horizon again every winter, and almost seventy years 
had to pass before you could understand and grasp what I indicated to you when I said: "in My Father's 
House are many dwellings!”
21] Now you know more than at that time, now you can also suspect more, grasp more, but also love your 
Creator, your Father more than then; "because now you know for sure what you once wanted to guess."
22] You also know even more, namely that behind this great material world there is an even larger spirit 
world, that this spirit world surrounds you even in your proximity and that you already have friends there 
who are waiting for you with longing, and that even if you could comprehend with your mind an infinity of 
the material world, you now also feel with your heart an infinity of the human spirit which proves to you that 
when all these worlds will be passed away or transformed in eons of years, you will always be a witness of 
their legitimate revolutions and transformations.
23] You have seen and understood from everything that beside this host of worlds there is a great mighty 
Creator who, loving as Father beside these great creations, does not forget even the smallest beings and in 
great as in small is always the same that love is His main characteristic, that love is the reason why He 
created such worlds, that love is the factor that pushes all material to the spiritual, that love can only be 
regarded as life when the smallest being follows the same instincts that moved the Creator to create the 
whole world!
24] The cold calculating mind may measure the distances of the world a hundred times, as far as its 
instruments and its science of calculation allow, and still discover orbiting planets, which all obey only one 
law; but not a single thought of love will warm his heart, he will be amazed at the worlds, their distances; but 
with admiration and reverence only the loving heart sinks down, which recognizes how in the midst of all 
matter, in the midst of all luminous worlds and suns only the ray of love can be warming!
110
25] What is all your astronomy? A cold enumeration of the stars, their orbits, and at most their different light 
alone all this does not give you the key to My creation:
26] If you discover laws, do not forget the legislator, He can only make what he has created worthwhile for 
you!
27] If He created out of love, "love" must also be the first thing that absorbs the ray of love and, in return, 
can give it back.
28] Thus was your spiritual gaze into the constellation of Orion, you saw in it your whole life, your mission, 
your future destiny, it shone out from all the shimmering rays of these stars the love of your Father, before 
whom you should have fallen down and proclaimed: "What am I, O Lord, that you remember me!".
29] And I answered you: "Rise, My child I know your heart and know what you want to say; your language 
has no words, it is an earthly product with which you cannot express supernatural feelings”. Calm down and 
persevere on the post I have placed you on; it will not last long and you will learn to measure and 
comprehend these immense spaces with your spiritual eyes, you will always find your Father everywhere in 
and on all worlds, who has lovingly arranged everything, leads everything on and wants to unite everything 
in a blissful way.
30] Let only the light of the distant worlds shine on your eyes, let it bring forth in you this pleasant emotion 
that makes all hearts peaceful; know - the light from all stars is love-light! is pure spiritual fluid, not yet 
polluted with coarse-material things - it is spiritual life, transformed into the finest substances of the creative 
space. Just as your sun is the bearer of all life on your little earth, so is the light of the stars, although coming 
from far away, always a carrier of those spiritual potencies which must supplement in you and all men that 
which your sun is not able to provide.
31] Thus the light of the constellation of Orion, Sirius and the Pleiades stimulated in you the tender threads 
of your heart; the light from those worlds as a light of love was spiritually related to your feelings, and so 
arose that spiritual distant view into the spaces where counting stops and even the speed of light becomes 
zero.
32] Related things united with similar things, and so you understood the language of a ray of light which,
from millions of miles away, told you the same thing that the tiny dust particle also preaches to you, that is :" 
God is love!
33] This is what will happen to everyone when he raises his eyes to his Father and His creation with a purely 
childlike mind. To understand My creation and Myself is not a matter of the mind, it is a matter of the heart, 
of feeling!
34] You do not know the language of feelings, you only suspect it; but in other spiritual relations this 
language will also become understandable to the spiritual man; for he must have it if it is to be his own 
progression from feeling to feeling, from bliss to bliss!
35] Do you believe these blessings can be borne all alone and in silence! - ? - - No - it is only through 
communication to others that one enjoys fully; so I enjoy through the joy of My children, and so they too 
must have a way of expressing them.
36] In individual moments of your life you feel that such a language exists; but at the same time you feel 
that you are not capable of it!
111
37] Precisely for this reason I also give you the expression of a single moment of spiritual elevation in so 
many words, so that others may also grasp what a sensitive heart can feel in a moment, in order to also 
encourage others not to look at My nature so spiritlessly, but so that they should get used to removing the 
material impressions from themselves and, when they do work, to interpret them spiritually; because men are 
spirits, and the spiritual is their first food, and in the end they stay the longest in the spiritual world.
38] Like many thousands go thoughtlessly under My Starry firmament in the evening, not paying any 
attention to them, they sneak into their cold four walls, chasing after the animal needs, to forget themselves, 
Myself and My world in sleep.
39] The kingdom of infinity, spread out over their heads, is regarded as non-existent, the kingdom among 
them a closed book; so they walk between two beautiful creations, where even their own existence is a 
Mystery to them. So they go day after day towards dissolution, transformation; they came into the world, 
didn't know why, and leave it again without a hair's breadth having become smarter!
40] O poor human race! how will you fare in the other world? if you do not fit into them and cannot go back 
into them!
41] Alone so it is, they are free, and so they shall enjoy what they have created for themselves.
42] He who wants to be an animal, let him remain an animal; and he who wants to become a spirit, let him 
become so and experience already in earthly life, in individual moments, that the visible world is something 
completely different than it seems; and that above it and in the midst of it there is still a spiritual kingdom,
which has no end and no beginning and where in the center of all created I as father, as personified love meet 
all with love and let them feel it often themselves in earthly life, which will find its full expression in the 
spirit realm.
43] So it was with you too, My Son, so I would like to know it with all My children, so they all obtain what 
they long for: Peace and comfort in life on earth and still spiritual enjoyment in the spirit world! 
44] In this way they achieve regular progress and so they can repeat the hours of spiritual exaltation more 
often, until in the other world they will make their lives permanently.
45] I always preach: lift yourselves up from the mud of earthly life! It is in vain, you will never find what 
you are looking for in its pleasures. You are spirits, and spiritually you should learn to enjoy.
46] Even the most material has spiritual sides, and who have not yet come so far as to give everything a 
spiritual covering, to draw from all spiritual gain, is still far away from the goal which he as man should 
reach here on earth, whereupon he can only reach the other, higher ones in the hereafter.
47] All that surrounds you are miracles; you yourselves, your physical and spiritual organization, 
everywhere material things are only the basis of a general great spiritual kingdom!
48] What is life?! What is light?! What is heat, what is magnetism, what is electricity?! etc. all these 
questions which I have already answered to your satisfaction, and yet you sneak around like blind people in 
this garden full of glorious products of divine love, bow your head deeply, forgetting your spiritual mission, 
your spiritual education, because of your material needs...
49] O corrupt human race, what bitter experiences will you prepare for yourself! My eye foresaw it long 
ago, but I cannot stop it; and so I have to be content with the few who, although only after hard trials, want to 
112
listen to My voice and not so thoughtlessly walk away, because the time of wandering is short and the goal is 
far away!
 50] Therefore also heed this word! In the beginning it was only addressed to My scribe alone; but 
everything I say is and must become common property. And so may this gaze of one open the eyes of many, 
so that they may all recognize what is at their command (if they only seriously want to), in order to prepare 
for themselves already in this trial life pleasures, which will only find the true interpretation in that life where 
time is a different measure, the measure of eternity, infinite spirits can also offer infinite joys! Amen.
Chapter 27
About Orion, Sirius and the Pleiades (2) (December 21, 1875)
01] in the last word I led you out into those distant places from where after millennia only a ray of light 
comes to you, showed you in a constellation a small piece of My infinite creation, showed you the great 
world suns which, gathered together in nebulae form there a kingdom of brilliance and colorful splendor, of 
which no human can imagine, nor will ever bring about a firm image of it.
02] I told you how many wonders I have placed in space only to prepare blessings for the spirits who love 
Me and know Me, which they are to receive and enjoy after victory as a suitable reward for their struggle and 
sorrowful life.
03] I demonstrated to you by enumerating all the wonders surrounding you, by the organizing of your and 
every sentient beings body given to you by Me, how far away you all are, despite all the words and factual 
(actual) evidence, to recognize your own spiritual point of view.
04] I told you how most of your brothers and sisters walk dully and unthinkingly under My starry 
firmament, without knowing in the least what is spreading above their heads and how instructive it would be 
to read there, if they were able to decipher these great scriptures of My eternal love!
05] At the last word I let you sense all the greatness of My creation and feel your own powerlessness beside 
it; I spoke admonitions and comforting words to you and to all, and yet it is not enough, what I said about 
this spiritual vision, which you have put into My creation.
06] There is still much, indeed very much remains to be said before it becomes understandable to others 
what this great etheric space is, which seems to arch over their heads, and what a position man actually 
occupies in the midst of this infinite unlimited space.
07] The numbers are not sufficient to measure My worlds and their distances, the words cannot describe all 
the beauties of these creations, and no human spirit, neither here nor there, will ever get a perfect overview of 
My whole material and spiritual kingdom.
08] One (world) expands infinitely - but the second is even more infinite; for if the material appears partly 
limited by space, the the expansion of the spirit realm is an unlimited one, because exactly those people 
dying from all worlds existing up to now fill a spirit kingdom, where next to them a myriad of other spirits 
rejoice in their existence, who have never been clothed in a material shell before.
113
09] There, however, other laws prevail and everything enlivens a different order that does not recognize 
time and space as a measure, but where, in addition to eternal existence itself, everything surrounding it 
carries the Temple of Infinity to an even greater degree.
10] You have taken a look into and through a constellation into My creation, you have seen how millions of 
suns send you the rays of their light from afar, where the ray of light now falling into your eye emerged from 
those spaces thousands of years ago and now, where the same ray of light only becomes apparent to you, 
there have long ago again proceeded thousands of changes on these great suns and into their light - so that 
with everything you see from those distances, only a time long past shines towards you and only past, not 
present nor future, can you read from them.
11] So is this great spiritual chain, which unites everything and branches out into the smallest to establish 
the eternal rule of all My laws, as I established them from the beginning, for the self-preservation of the 
created.
12] Since the ray of light is not only to shine, but also to carry an eternal life force, you understand well that 
it must also have a life-driving influence where it is noticeable; for no ray of light, coming from even the 
most distant suns and worlds and falling on an object only after thousands of years, has lost its primitive 
power, which it can only express, however, as soon as an object opposes its path.
13] Thus new worlds came into being whose virginal light has not yet come to you: and so you see suns 
shining, whose existence has long since ceased as suns in space.
14] The so-called sidereal (sidereal = generally related to the stars, in particular to the influence and the 
effects of starlight) influence of the outside world on your physical and spiritual life you all cannot 
comprehend, nor make it clear to you that it is is too gentle and non-destructive.
15] But they are there, these influences, and they work continually, this I can assure you, although you do 
not feel them and your scholars deny them. There must be such an interaction, otherwise nothing uniform 
could be represented!
16] How could a mutual connection be possible at such distances and such sizes, if the perpetual exchange 
of spiritual and material components would not be promoted and brought about by means of light in addition 
to the force of attraction!
17] Light is the carrier and the awakener of all life, without light there would be no movement, no 
development of heat would be possible, where heat as awakener and decomposer of all that has been created 
brings about what you all call "life".
18] The decomposition and combustion process carries all elements from stage to stage, perfecting them by 
destroying, and so eternal regeneration is the result of the once created basic principle, whereby the infinite 
continuance of all materially formed could be conditioned and established!
19] What you can see here every day in the material world, the same goes on in the spirit world as well.
20] The spiritual connection, the rapid flight of thought also produces the same result as the light in material 
creation.
21] The living force that dwells in the spiritual light is thought - and the material of the spiritual light is the 
communicated word.
114
22] The power is incorporeal in that it only manifests itself in its effects, just as the thought only becomes 
palpable to the other through the spoken word or the action performed.
23] The realm of thoughts is infinite, knows no limits, and the thought itself has even faster flight than light.
24] The thought enlivens like the power of life that is sheltered in the light. But just as light only begins to 
act and becomes visible when it reflects back on a solid object, so too the thought is only noticeable when it 
condenses into form, makes itself audible to others in words.
25] And how in the light of worlds that have long since disappeared the New-born Power is still, so is the 
Word, which, though spoken thousands of years ago, will not fail to have an effect.
26] See, what I spoke more than a thousand years ago, and where now again My descent into your little 
world will be celebrated in a few days as a feast of remembrance of those times with you - it is still in all its 
power! And as the light, so also the word, where it is conspicuous and can take root, causes the same thing 
that the light produces, that is, warmth or spiritual love and with the warmth of love activity or elimination of 
the unsuitable and perfection of the better.
27] My Word from those times never lost its power, but, to put it better, it has never since then unfolded all 
its power, but soon the time will come when it will stand in all its glory as that which I once gave it: as the 
only binding agent between the spiritual and material kingdom.
28] Soon will come the time when from one end of creation to the other the light-thought of love will be 
understood and exercised!
29] The wind of spiritual knowledge is already blowing on your earth. And just as the morning wind 
precedes every sunrise, where the air heated by the sun comes into contact with the cold air of the night and 
strives to balance itself with it, so also My divine thought, which I brought as seed to this small earth at that 
time, will spread warmth and light and begin to drive away the cold air of egoism and animal passions.
30] Always and everywhere the same principle - light and warmth in the material, thought and expression of 
it through word and deed in the spiritual. These are the connecting elements that chain everything together, 
making each one dependent on the other!
31] Thus My Kingdom consists in eternal life, further education and self-perfection.
32] In all spaces lives and weaves the power of love, which produces the same in the material as in the 
spiritual, and if your gaze cannot measure the distances in space, your imagination cannot follow the effects 
of a spoken thought either. One works like the other forever. Where light encounters an object, it must 
undergo its influence; where a thought touches a heart as a word, there the success does not fail, which can 
never be the same with the diversity of the created beings, because of their individuality either.
33] Thus also in the spiritual the thought effect is an ongoing one because although it has done its part with 
the higher spirits, it also acts with all others standing on lower levels as soon as one or the other thinking 
being comes into its sphere.
34] A look into the constellation of Orion has spiritually opened to you the wide spaces of My creation, and 
you sank together before the greatness of distances, before the greatness of the world bodies; and now a look 
into the infinity of the world of thoughts fills you with devotion and love for me, since in fatherly favor I 
115
have already given you and the others some spiritual gifts from which all should recognize what their 
position in this world should and could be if they were spiritually better educated!
35] Christmas, the New Year's Eve, both remind you, the first of My great act of love, the second of the 
flight of time, where you are now far away in completely different spaces than in the previous year, when
your sun and its companions, with great speed leads you towards other cosmic spaces than those that you 
were near last year.
36] Do not ask about changing climatic conditions, not about changing the spiritual attitudes of mankind as 
well as of the individual man; you do not know where you are now and where the laws of My creation lead 
you!
37] In infinite space the suns move around the suns, and the planets must always feel their changes, 
including their interactions, under their influence.
38] Everything has its final purpose, including the circling of worlds around worlds. In the whole ether there 
is not one place, no matter how small it may be, completely equal to another, because it is precisely there that 
existing conditions again require different living conditions.
39] It is the same with you on the small earth, on the seashore is a different life than in the mountains, in 
marshlands different from in the steppe or in the desert - everywhere even the organization of living beings 
suffers under these climatically different conditions, and these again partly determine the spiritual 
development.
40] Just as this example in the small, so in the starry sky in the large: there too, other influences determine 
other effects and other purposes.
41] It is not for nothing that millions of miles are the necessary distances for the existence of one or the 
other body of the world; it is not for nothing that even greater distances are needed for even greater suns. 
They must have space for their material formation and for the perfection of all the smaller worlds that depend 
on them.
42] Nothing is placed in vain as it is now, was once and will always be.
43] An infinitely lasting work must be built on a broader basis if, in addition to entering life, it must also 
preserve itself, perfect itself and bring itself to a certain final result.
44] I gave the first impulse of existence, the rest must develop from itself.
45] In your soul life it is the same, the first ray of light of love for God and men must first be laid, and then 
it is incumbent on every person to form himself to what I actually created him; The thought ray "the Word" 
must awaken him, the rest of the process of decomposition and perfection must therefore be carried out by 
him.
46] How the worlds are led through wide spaces in order to absorb everywhere from the ether what they 
need for their preservation and formation, as does the human spirit in the great realm of thought, where also 
he has the task of understanding and fulfilling his mission from the words left behind, be they divine or 
human.
47] Far behind the material creation "the great Spirit" dwells in the midst of His spirit realm, and far above 
the world of thoughts actually lives only the source of the spiritual understanding of the given words!
116
48] It is not the words, not the thoughts, which must lead men to their goals, but their spiritually correct 
conception, their practical realization.
49] Just as light with all its creative power only works when it falls on a solid object; as well as the whole 
world of thoughts only becomes fruitful when it can also bear fruit falling on receptive ground.
50] See My Teaching, how simply I gave it to even uneducated people, like My apostles only fishermen etc.
and not scholars! And nowadays, with all the scholarship of the whole world, there is still no one who can 
give it back to men as I have spoken it and as I want to see it understood; but I Myself again have to start 
anew as it were and for the time being explain everything again individually to only a few, if I want that My
words, words of the highest spirit, are also to be understood spiritually.
51] How often have I tried this remedy? From centuries to centuries I spoke through different people, 
always in accordance with the spirit of time, in vain! My words were not heard or overheard or 
misinterpreted; and now you too are again one of those chosen ones through whom I want to supplement My
curriculum, and nevertheless, look at your followers how few understand what you have to write and what I 
let them say in My infinite grace.
52] From all kingdoms of nature, from all corners of the earth and of creation I seek out objects which 
receive under My hand an importance as no man has ever imagined.
53] I dissect what is nearest to them as well as farthest, everywhere I show them the same purpose, the same
loving father and the same cause.
54] Everywhere I explain to them what the source of all creation is, whether through the microscope or 
telescope they want to contemplate My miracles - everywhere it is, was and will be love that created 
everything, preserves everything and perfects everything.
55] In Orion, as in the smallest atom of the world's ether, it calls to you all what My angels once sung at My
Birth:
56] "Peace" with the world! "Peace" preaches My creation, "peace" is My ultimate goal - and "peace" shall 
also reign among you! 
57] Look where you want to go, and you will find that nature always wants to establish peace where it has 
been disturbed by elementary events or something else. Every created being longs for peace.
58] The approaching Christmas should also remind you of this peace.
59]"Peace with the world, with yourselves" be also your watchword for the coming year, that you may 
spread it wherever your position is!
60] So may the light from the last nebulas of Orion also send you peace, where worlds whose distance and 
greatness may be incalculable for you, but whose tendency and existence likewise only obey the laws of 
peace and send you the gentle ray of love of their light, so that you may recognize that even there the same
law still exists, the same care is given, which does not forget the last worm also here on your little earth and 
which only wants to spread peace everywhere, because only in peace love alone can be active! Amen.
117
Chapter 28
Essence of Light (2) (January 4, 1876)
01] In My last two words about the constellation of Orion, I have already explained to you some of the main 
characteristics of light, namely as the first - "the stimulating, invigorating force" and the second "the 
development of warmth or life".
02] But now I want to show you other qualities of light, which some of you might have suspected, but 
whose concept has never become clear to them.
03] Years ago I said to you in one word that "light, life and love (see the chapter "light, life and love" in 
"Secrets of life") are connected to each other in such a way that one emerges from the other; but now I also 
want to explain to you in more detail how it behaves so that you are able to recognize again how much is and 
must still be present in a ray of light, it shall correspond to My ideas and eternally be a carrier of My will and 
an awakener of life and love!
04] Behold, My children, the whole immeasurable ether is a dark space in which the cosmic forces act alone.
05] However, the ether itself has all elements within it which are necessary for the creation of the individual 
worlds and for their preservation. Within the smallest atom of ether lies this primordial force, which is 
always arranged according to its position in such a way that it is either an attracting or a repelling force, 
whereby even the ether does not enjoy rest, but both forces, the attracting and the repelling, receive within it 
the necessary movement and the actual cosmic life, which alone is suitable, firstly, to give the existing 
worlds what is necessary for their preservation or to remove the unnecessary from it, and secondly - which 
etheric life is thereby enabled to let new worlds emerge from the elementary substances lying within it.
06] Now, in the midst of this great ether space, where there is no below or above, no right or left is 
conceivable, in this dark space, like drops of oil floating on the water without gravity, the great worlds and 
suns together with all planets and comets orbiting them –are attracted or repelled by each other - held in long, 
elliptical or almost circular orbits. (See in this volume the chapter "The Screw")
07] In the ether, as I said, eternal motion rules through these two forces, which you can also call "electricity 
and magnetism (see the chapters of the same name in this volume), through which the worlds, suns and 
planetary orbits are determined or influenced.
08] This movement causes friction, friction generates heat, and heat finally also light, and light with its 
expressions of power, as I already said above, life or a legitimate aspiration to shape itself, to maintain itself
and to spiritualize everything through wear, destruction or transformation; so that all worlds, the suns and 
their satellites will finally return, after their material destruction or decay, as new, however spiritual worlds 
must go one step further through the same process of formation, which they have gone through as bound 
matter from the etheric atom to the worlds and solar formations.
09] Since the worlds and suns are not all alike, indeed, none identical to the other, their development process 
is also limited to different epochs of time, where one can fully carry out its development, perfection and new 
formation process in so many millions and the other only in eons of years.
10] Your scholars have discovered in the light qualities which - as they cannot be known to all - I will 
enumerate here, where then great, important discoveries are to be connected to these small achievements; so 
that you may see that all that the scholars find through experiments or instruments is indeed true, but that 
118
they are lacking in the proper judgment of it, since they do not want to regard it as a gift of grace from the 
Creator of a universe.
11] So see, the scholars have found in the light, firstly: that the light (I am talking for the time being about 
sunlight) consists of a bundle of rays and each ray in the form of a four-edged star (in cross section) - always 
has a positive and a negative electrical edge. They also discovered that in addition to these luminous rays, 
dark black lines appear, which they have called "heat rays". They also found that the ray of light itself, when
it falls on chemically prepared metals, produces certain colors by means of this discovery they wanted to 
expand their investigation so far as to determine the material components of distant worlds and suns, whether 
they consist of material similar to your small earth! (The so-called "spectral analysis")
12] By the way, the scholars have refracted the ray of light into its seven colors through the prism, as you 
can always observe on all products and in the rainbow with its various mixtures.
13] Well, all these discoveries, partly true and partly false, could have taken the scholars one step further; 
only there they would have had to give up their scholarliness in order to bow before their Lord, before Me;
but this did not appeal to their pride, and so they stopped at what they found.
14] But since I have other views of the world than they and do not to make a privilege out of My knowledge 
of things like they do, but proceed on the principle: "One only knows Me completely when one learns to 
understand My works", so it is and always has been My concern: to communicate to My children (be they 
materially created people or spirits) as much of My spirit as they can comprehend and grasp. And so I will
also now again, following up on these just mentioned discoveries, continue My word about light so that it 
becomes light in your head and you yourselves can appreciate the discoveries of your natural scientists in the 
right measure.
15] I told you in the last word that the light has an invigorating power; and just now I also said that in the 
ether two forces are always opposite each other, namely attraction and repulsion, which cause life, that is to 
say, light and warmth and from these life.
16] Well, the discoveries of your scholars in four-edged ray of light are likewise nothing other than these 
two forces which, where they attract attention to solid or denser objects, put into action this struggle of the 
two basic forces of all that exists and thus continue or condition the whole process of life from creation to its 
passing away or transformation.
17] The so-called "black lines" of heat rays are nothing else than denser substances which are carried along 
by the light beam in its fast course from the etheric space, and which - precisely because of the speed of the 
light rubbing naturally against each other - generate heat themselves in the light beam and can thus be called 
"heat rays", since the more directly they attract an object, the more they develop the latent (bound, stored) 
heat of the physical world through their warmth and their speed.
18] But what mainly contributes to this heat development is the refraction of the light beam, initially into its 
three main colors: red, blue and yellow, and also the mixing of these into the other (secondary and tertiary 
colors), since the bodies partially absorb the colors and only reflect the unused ones, through which they then 
become visible to the human eye.
19] See, I have told you in the last word that where a ray of light strikes, it produces life and warmth, but the 
"how" you find in the refraction and division of color. For as soon as a ray of light touches an object with its 
life force, this object or its material particles begin to vibrate, so that individual parts of the same object 
119
vibrate billions of times in a second, separating this or that color from itself, as reflecting to the observer on 
its surface; to which must be added the reaction that takes place in the elements of your eye through the 
renewed refraction of the reflected colors in the iris and the other parts of the visual organs.
20]"Seeing" therefore means nothing other than to notice every object in the color that he rejects as not his 
own, while he has absorbed all the others, both main and mixed colors, since they are necessary for his 
existence.
21] Thus the black color is not a color because the object has absorbed all the colors, and "white" is not a 
color either, because the object that appears white to you completely lacks the gift of absorption and reflects 
all the rays of light that fall back on it without decomposing them to its needs.
22] So you can see from all this that you must judge the whole splendor of colors of nature differently than it 
appears to the earthly eye; for to the spiritual eye a feverish rain appears there, where peace shines, which is 
stimulated to form, maintain, develop and transform, and only by the ray of light simply striking there.
23] In the great etheric space, I told you, everything also moves, caused by the two elemental forces of 
attraction and repulsion; but in the seemingly solid matter there is no rest either, for the same process takes 
place with the first ray of light that falls on it; everything also moves in it, with a speed that no human sense 
can ever grasp and no human eye can ever notice.
24] Thus the effect of the simple beam of light is the great factor of all life.
25] What your scholars believe to have invented, namely a device to determine even the elementary 
components of distant worlds by means of reaction of the light beam to chemically prepared substances, they 
are very mistaken, which they could easily recognize if they only wanted to compare their experiments 
where in all stars and suns only the same result appears (that is, even if they differ among themselves, it can 
only be about substances known on earth), because they completely ignore the factor, the earth atmosphere, 
through which every ray of light must pass before it reaches the surface of the earth.
26] Well, so I ask these scholars, do they not believe that all the same substances are present in the 
atmosphere of the earth, namely in a dissolved state, which find themselves bound in the body of the earth 
itself!
27] With little thought, an affirmation should come out of this, for the globe once arose from the 
atmosphere, and it will once again dissolve into it as a cloud of mist, just as it already now in every second 
gives its spent elements to it.
28] If a ray of light coming from afar touches the atmosphere of the earth and penetrates it, then it must 
partly submit to the influence of the atmosphere and then also bring the same substances that make up the 
atmosphere with it onto the surface of the earth.
29] For example, "iron" is present in the Earth's atmosphere in a dissolved state, so the light beam already 
comes loaded with such elements on the chemically prepared material and therefore naturally reacts to it with 
iron, but not as a pure light beam from a distant sun or world, but as a changed factor, influenced by the 
telluric (earthly) orbit of our planet itself.
30] If it were possible to get the light ray of a sun or other world directly from the ether-space without it 
having to undergo other chemical processes which it cannot avoid when passing through atmospheres, then 
your scholars would get other results and sometimes no results at all.
120
31] But this is impossible, since no living being can exist without an atmosphere, although in the ether all 
the primordial materials of creation are ready, but must first be made useful and consumable for living 
creatures only through many transformations.
32] therefore be content with what I have taught you to be for your own good, and do not seek to explore 
things which lead to no other result than the realization that there are other world bodies which are earths or 
suns like yours, whose interior, surface, vegetation and creatures deviate so far from the shapes and forms 
you have dreamed of that you can set your imagination free and yet will never approach the truth by a hair's 
breadth.
33] My worlds are dwellings of creatures which I created out of love, received out of love, educated and 
perfected until they too have all learned to recognize, understand and love Him out of the struggle with 
matter as pure spiritual children of their great Father and Creator.
34] One thing remains certain: The light is the bearer of My love, the awakener of all life and even if it 
happens in so many different ways, a spiritual man will always have to sink in astonishment when he 
experiences how the whole great building of creation owes all its eternal survival, its perfection, its 
development and finite spiritualization only to the ray of light, which binds worlds together with such great 
speed, balances their needs, arouses life and love wherever his his power is felt.
35] Here I spoke only of the individual ray of light and its properties. But if you only want to look at your 
sun, where a sea of light rays from its great atmosphere falls on your earth every second, that sea of light 
which no human eye, although it is also filled with elements of sunlight, can look at with impunity - if you 
then think of larger suns whose diameter and radius reaches far beyond the orbit of your last planets (from 
our sun as the center), and suspect what mass of light emanates there, what movement, life and warmth it 
must produce, what brilliance of colors and what splendor of color those rays of light are able to produce 
where they are striking, then you can already imagine the glory which is in My creation, where your sun in 
comparison to the others would have to disappear before the glow of greater suns as a faint night light. And 
on such worlds live beings who, while maintaining the human type, have a beauty in form and expression 
that all your conceptions of beauty are insufficient, inadequate; for you still have no concept of higher souls, 
of their spiritual formation, but where also the outside corresponds to the inside, and where an angelic face -
as you often say - is not yet sufficient in all your imagination according to human concepts, as you might find 
such a thing in other worlds in innumerable numbers.
36] Oh, My creation is great, but it is also glorious and sublime, full of bliss and spiritual pleasures, whereby 
your earth, like a desert wasteland, could only endure the weakest comparison.
37] But why I have chosen this very small earth for My greatest deed, why you are preferred over many 
others to one day become My true children after trouble and struggle, that has another, great, spiritual 
purpose, which I have already discussed with you elsewhere before and now do not want to repeat here now!
38] I was moved to this step by the spiritual diffusion of light, and therefore I began where it was the darkest 
and unfortunately still is; while in those other worlds men revel in bliss, know nothing of struggle or sorrow, 
but also therefore have no merit. They progress slowly and will also have to go through longer phases of 
education, until they come to where you now - led by My hand, could already be!
39] It is precisely in spiritual progression that there is a different law and another reason than in the material. 
And therefore do not envy those who never felt the urge for the spiritual, because their conditions already 
121
makes them so blessed that a separation from there would hurt them infinitely; while you poor wanderers 
have to carry the flag of the spiritual nobility on arid ground in the midst of a neglected world and thus fight 
sourly for what has fallen into the laps of other creatures without will and in abundance.
40] Light, the carrier and perfector of the material, has given them in abundance what others lack; but light, 
spiritual light with the same factors as material light, it illuminates your heart, beautifies even the most 
boring wasteland, because viewed through this light, interpreted differently (and even utilizing its properties
differently), it can produce other results.
41] The light with its disintegrating colors, according to the seven qualities of My divine self, materially 
accomplishes what they spiritually accomplish.
42] Light makes everything materially bound vibrate and tremble. Also the spiritual light, when it moves the 
soul or the human heart in its qualities, makes it also tremble with delight, makes it feel that a loving Creator 
only wants to prepare such ennobling pleasures, and that as with material light the reaction follows - where it 
is noticeable, so also the spiritual light embellishes everything and shows with it what its qualities are able to 
achieve: love, tolerance, mercy, forgiveness and submission to the highest will as true humility even with the 
greatest sacrifices.
43] Just as the light, when it falls on the cold earth as the first ray of sun in the morning, animates 
everything, affects everything, so does the spiritual light, which sets all spiritual abilities in motion in order 
to fulfil the mission, which is why people have entered this short wandering life.
44] The whole animal world with only a few exceptions feels the first ray of light. Even the drowsy person, 
when a ray of the sun hits his camp, feels troubled, it urges him, and restlessly he rolls around, not knowing 
and not suspecting that it is an eternity which wants to give him proof of his never-ending power in the ray of 
light of the rising sun.
45] The hard-working ant sticks out its feelers from its hole in the earth, for the ray of light reminds her to 
work. There a little bird sits on a dry rice, the first morning ray of the invigorating sun moves it to chirp it
morning song, and the bee leaves its nest humming from flower to flower to collect the sweet juice, which it 
presumes to store for its comrades in the beehive for winter times, but which unfortunately the pleasureseeking man robs from her again.
46] Everywhere it moves, in and on earth, - everything rejoices at this recurring ray of sun, for life is in it 
and life depends on it.
47] Even in the far north, while everything solidified from the influence of the great cold, light is the only 
witness of nature's activity, while everything else gives no life, no sign of warmth.
48] In the south of your globe, at the pole, spent substances of the earth organism arise from it, and like 
luminous bands they return again to the north, where the magnetic-etheric (ethereal) force flows into the 
earth's interior, where the Mysterious movement of the earth's atmosphere draws it. And just near the 
magnetic pole, where two forces meet - magnetism and electricity - these vapors are ignited by friction of 
their elementary atoms and, as a northern light, spreads your familiar electric light. The decomposition and 
combustion process takes place in various refractions and different forms, until everything that had become 
dead for the earth organism becomes usable again and can flow back into the earth's interior as an active 
magnetic force, as an invigorating substance, so that everything on the surface of this small planet can 
122
flourish and become beautiful, in constant interaction with the outside world, the same harmony is also 
created inside and the same purpose is fulfilled.
49] Just as you humans and the entire animal kingdom inhale the "oxygen and life substance" and exhale it 
again as carbon, the latter is greedily absorbed by the entire plant world for its prosperity and completes the 
exchange cycle, by preparing oxygen at nighttime - also the earth as a living pulsating being absorbs 
magnetic fluid in the north, discharges electric fluid in the south and sends it back to the north, where just in 
the midst of the stagnation on earth in the atmosphere the spiritual purification process takes place, which 
supplements the consumed with new viable elements.
50] Everywhere it is light that spreads warmth and life. And just there, where man with his greed finds 
nothing more to gain, and in that height of your atmosphere, where animal life has become impossible, there 
is the workshop of My omnipotence, which is eternally renewing what is consumed in millions every day.
51] Within the great etheric space it is the same. Only the light with its fast flight crosses this eternal 
darkness. Light rays of millions of suns and worlds meet, cross each other there, where one ray gives off to 
the other what it no longer needs, which is beyond millions of miles of another sun, another planet, to 
become partial spiritualized food, so that the individual as a whole is preserved.
52] It is the four edged ray of light with its positive and negative electricity that sustains My creation and 
helps to lead it to its goal.
53] Between the circles of entire systems of worlds a group of comets moves as expectant suns with their 
future planets. In elongated orbits they pass through the dark ether, leaving a long streak of luminosity, 
which also contains only their elementary substances and which should testify to their size and their speed.
54] Here is a star which, according to the classification you have introduced, belongs to the twelfth class, 
grows ever brighter, ever larger up to the star of first magnitude in brilliance and then decreases in light again 
after a few years until it has completely disappeared from your eyes.
55] It showed you the process of its becoming and its passing away, but it’s becoming was long before the 
ray of light, and its dissolution took place when you saw it in its highest glory.
56] Here a comet, a future solar system in the process of formation, and there an end of world life, where 
perhaps individual debris could circle around in cosmic space testifying to its former greatness.
57] No one tells you of all this great life of creation, if it is not the fleeting ray of light which, like the fast 
passing of time, reminds us of the transience of the existing, where only the purpose of creating something 
new, of progressing, is the main principle in all creation.
58] O how few know the true value of light, neither in spiritual correspondence, by which it could often give 
great and fruitful teachings to man as a ray of light, if he were able to receive them or to comprehend them 
spiritually, not in material regard, how out of the ray of light all that is good and beautiful germinates!
59] You, My Son, saw a whole great world in the light of a few stars. I helped you to hold on to this moment 
forever so that, even if you once departed, your and My Word would bear fruit. And now again I have taken 
up the same subject and have just explained the ray of light to all of you like a professor, furthermore let you 
feel the spiritual ray of light of My word - and now I send you again the light as the primary substance of My
qualities as a loving being, synonymous with and equally effective wherever light, which excites life, can 
replace what is lacking.
123
60] I have shown you how light alone is the only factor which gives you knowledge of the existence of 
distant worlds and thus puts you in contact with worlds where spiritually related, loving souls also wait for 
redemption from matter in order to once be able to enjoy all happiness as spiritual beings, which can only be 
won and felt spiritually, therefore only by spirits.
61] I showed you in the Northern Lights the balance of the consumed with the newly acquired in the 
metabolism of your earth, taught you how everywhere the light acts as a propagator of life, weaves and 
preserves, and just as in the dark etheric space, where everything on your earth has solidified, only the 
spiritual effect of all elementary substances begins to be useful to the small earth inside and outside.
62] Thus you have heard a multitude of all possible explanations of light, you have heard in detail, as in the 
sea of light of a central sun, the word which is to kindle a spiritual light for you, so that you may not forget 
Him who does not fail to draw attention to the wonders and laws of His creation, so that you should regard 
the former as witnesses of His love and never sin against the latter. Because only you yourselves will have to 
be subject to the punishment just as only you can and should enjoy the blisses when you have got to know 
and love Me even more through My creation.
63] Time and time again I repeat it and again today: I am love! only in this way can you understand Me, 
cherish My words and learn to appreciate My works; and only through love do you find the key to the 
kingdom of spirits, whose inhabitants you will be by far longer than this short life of redemption is!
64] Where there is love in the heart, the first ray shines to find the way to Me; for even this love, spreading 
warmth and life, like the ray of light, will eternally be the bearer of all good and sublime.
65] Without love My seven qualities cannot be expressed, for all spring from it. And just as the light is 
divided into seven colors to beautify the visible world, so too does love actively sweeten man's way of life in 
its qualities, where he will only really understand the love of God, which cannot exist without love for his
neighbor, by exercising it towards his neighbor.
66] For because of neighborly love I created the whole universe, guided the light through it, and even I only 
feel My qualities again when I find them realized in living beings.
67] Thus the ray of light must create and maintain harmony and mutual interaction from one pole of creation 
to the other, and so through it the bond between loving beings, between father and children becomes ever 
closer until once - as I said it on earth: "will be "one shepherd and one flock", where then I will no longer let 
the word resound in the wide spaces of My creation: let there be light! for light will have become
everywhere, inside the hearts as well as in the outward appearance of the material world, where no dark spot 
will stand against the spiritual eye when visiting My works!
68] Thus the light is to lead you as a symbol of My love far out to those distant worlds and far into the 
bowels of the planets and suns, where love as a substitute for the material light does and prepares everything 
to give the creatures living on the surface a bearable happy life, where the preservation of physical life is to
be easily disturbed and the formation of the spiritual should not be disturbed by anything, so that, as I said to 
you years ago: light, life and love is the cloverleaf of the Trinity, which is to guide you on all paths and 
finally lead you to Me in the spirit realm, where light, life and love will no longer have an end - and you will 
always find "more light" in spiritual life and "more love" in spiritual light, which starting from Me, first of all 
invigorating the whole spirit kingdom, facilitating the material life and warming the hearts of men, is to
make a covenant more firml, in which from father to child there are only gentle gradations and therefore 
124
never frighten the omnipotence of the former, but make his love forget everything that could complicate life 
in the great spirit kingdom.
69] So here again you have a word, a word of My miracles, to show you that even if you have to be 
astonished by the greatness of My world, you should not shy away from the Creator, who only wants to be a 
Father, but may have firm confidence that He just as a Father on earth does not want to give you anything but 
joys and indeed joys without end! Amen.
Chapter 29
Essence of light (3) (January 14, 1876)
01] What I told you concerning the inhabitants of other worlds, that they live in better conditions and 
happier circumstances than you, and that although they already enjoy bliss, they are spiritually behind you -
you can also see this example on your own earth if you want to look at the northern and southern half of your 
globe, its inhabitants and climatic conditions.
02] Here too, nature, climate and lighter food worries have fallen to the southern inhabitants, while the 
northern ones, struggling with the elements, have to feel almost daily the Old Testament saying: "You shall 
earn your bread by the sweat of your brow".
03] Here, too, you see the spiritual faculties (abilities) in the North more developed, because it is precisely 
the external climatic conditions that urge people to seek peace and comfort within them, while the milder 
temperature, always clear skies and lush vegetation in the outside world almost completely distracts 
Southerners from their inner life.
04] Here on your globe, too, you can visualize the comparison - between the inhabitants of the glorious 
worlds and yourselves on your little earth.
05] All men are called to the same goal, just as all inhabitants of the other suns and worlds; but the process 
of spiritual formation goes, according to the receptivity of souls - with one diminished, with the other slower, 
and so it is also on your earth. The southerner needs longer to mature spiritually than the northerner, 
precisely because he has to fight less for his food and is less motivated by external conditions to contemplate 
his inner self.
06] But he also has to fight more against his animal passions, and the northerner doesn't even know some
sides of the human soul that worries the southerner the most. 
07] The southerner corresponds to the electricity prevailing in the southern hemisphere and the northerner to 
that of magnetism.
08] This is also how it is with the worlds. The more beautiful the world and the more comfortable life on it -
the slower the spiritual progress; and the more struggle, the more the shadow of a spiritual life is a reward for 
the sufferer.
09] The law of the incorporation of spirits into other worlds is so ordered that they do not have to make too 
great a leap, but in the south of the less equipped worlds similar conditions can be found.
125
10] This I wanted to tell you by explaining the other worlds and let it follow here, so that you may always 
better recognize the order of My creation, where everything is guided and ordered according to one and the 
same principle and you can find the analogy (similarity) if you want to look at the situation with your 
spiritual eye.
11] Even the plants and animals show you the same, as I once said elsewhere.
12] Compare the plants and fruits of the south with those of the north. What a colorful splendor of the 
feathered world, without melodic singing; what a simple dress with soulful expression in the north 
(nightingale)! In the north there are songbirds and in the south there are screaming birds decorated with 
colors; that is, here opulent appearance with little inner content and there a harmonious being with a 
neglected form!
13] You even find your most valued metals and precious stones more in the south than in the north, because 
there everything lives for the earthly appearance and in the north more for practical earthly life, only being of 
use to the spiritual.
14] In the south, most peoples have a tendency to dress in splendor, like their surrounding nature; in the 
north, the land of iron, more a sense of homage to the solid, the useful. While in the south softness prevails, 
in the north the main principle is to fight against everything that hinders spiritual development.
15] It is precisely because of this that the Northerner is more receptive to spirituality than the inhabitants of 
the South, because his soul is more accustomed to struggle, does not shy away from it, goes straight towards 
it, while the southerner cautiously evades it.
16] Read through history and you will find that even in wars between tribes their armament has always been 
very different in the north and south, according to their character.
17] The time of the middle ages was called in the north the time of iron, or "the iron age, because there 
everything was well wrapped in heavy iron.
18] The move to iron is not exactly because of the safety one had under such clothing, it lies even deeper, it 
is the related magnetic substance, which lay in the iron and in the human soul related to it.
19] Look at your inhabitants of the lowlands, how their breast rises, how great their enthusiasm becomes 
when they approach important mountain countries, when they walk between their lush valleys, their gorges, 
when they follow the mountain inhabitants on dizzy heights to the borderline of vegetation and on torn cliffs 
or on eternally covered snow and ice fields in the distance see their homeland!
20] Look, it is not both the masses of the mountains, it is their inner structure, which contains related 
elements which are close to the human soul and belongs to the northern half of the globe. (See "The 
Grossglockner", a Gospel of the mountains)
21] The southerner does not want any mountains, no great natural scene, he wants peace and comfort, 
because the temperature of his country does not allow him much movement without making great sacrifices
of effort.
22] Thus, the great and beautiful worlds are also created only for those people for whom slow maturity is 
beneficial, and so you should interpret My first words and those that follow, if you want to find a just logic in 
the apparently unjust.
126
23] I deliberately showed you these comparisons on your earth between south and north, so that you can 
understand the distance more easily in the future.
24] I could list many things as proof of the difference, which also has its reason in the way the small 
components of the earth's surface or its interior involuntarily affect the spiritual development period of the 
peoples, to what extent they dwell in the south or in the north.
25] Take, for example, the religions with their cults, how soft and sensual they have become with the 
southerners, while in the north they had an increasingly strict moral character. Even the idea of a future 
duration after death had to suffer under this influence and thus make their mission more difficult instead of 
facilitating it.
26] How few of you are able to judge the actual state, be it of the culture of the nations, of its development, 
because most historians and ethnologists judge man only by what has happened visibly, but not by the secret 
course, which is involuntarily often the main factor.
27] See, climatic conditions influence the body, food and life activity influence the soul, and education and 
social position influence the intellect! You do not know the great chain which connects all beings, but which 
also directs the individual to the place where they are most likely to function and progress most easily; for it 
begins outside your small planet and goes far beyond your suns and world systems.
28] It is no coincidence that one was born or raised in these conditions, the other in those conditions; it is not 
an arbitrary coincidence of circumstances that determined one person to live and work in a different way 
from another.
29] Everywhere, rest assured, there is a spiritual "why" which then established the practical "reason.
30] That which the southern peoples call "fate" and their "destiny", where man's freedom of action would 
thereby be limited, is nowhere to be found.
31] It is true that climatic conditions, food, social status and education have made man on earth what he 
seems; but also again the power is given to the soul and is firmly conditioned by the spark of God given to it 
to master all these influences and to use them for the spiritual benefit in such a way that the spirit-soul 
always prevails and the body, if it also suffers through this limitation, must obey the soul.
32] And here you see or at least you can guess how many circumstances often have to occur in order to lead 
the different souls with all their varying spiritual abilities to a common goal.
33] Here you can learn to understand how I lead the regiment, since I use all the actions of men, all their 
deeds in such a way that My purpose, that is to say, a gradual progress in the whole created world, is 
promoted by the fact that even the worst, invented and carried out by men, must only produce good.
34] I have given these words as an appendage to My former one, so that it may aim to ignite even more light 
in your hearts, and in this look into the great regiment of spirits you could guess what is actually even more 
contained in the words which I once gave you under the title "The World of Thought" and "The Word" (see 
"Mysteries of Life", p. 112 and 128). For "light" was also the title of that word, and it should and must 
become light, although with your lukewarm attitude it can only spread slowly.
35] The magnetic and electrical force, these great factors of My world realm, are too important to be 
overlooked or misunderstood, and when I said it is a chain that connects and holds everything together, these 
127
two factors are the binding agent in the material world, which in the spiritual corresponds to My will and My
earnestness to lead everything nevertheless to where I want and to what I have determined.
36] Light develops from these two aforementioned forces. The Light determines the existence of the worlds, 
their climatic conditions, their products, which then become the basis for the soul life of all beings, who, 
under all these influences, have to impress the stamp of spiritual nobility or spiritual uprightness through 
struggle and conflict with their own nature.
38] Just as the air, the winds, the sea, the waves and the interior of the earth always keep their magneticelectrical life in motion, so in the spiritual of the human pathways the adversities and the various conditions, 
which always have a stimulating, positive effect on spirit and soul, so that also there, as in the sea always ebb 
and flow, they save the spiritual life of the soul from decay.
39] Thus you see the great chain, which also in the spirit realm does not yet have its end, but links the spirits 
to the world and the living beings to the passed ones (souls) and always receives this connection, as soon as 
only one suitable organ is found, which can also make them visible.
40] Everywhere it is the great spiritual potency of My Will, the gentle influence of My divine qualities,
which has made this immense building which you know as the universe, and where conservation is also
progress, in that everywhere there are only beginnings, gradual advancement, but nowhere is there 
perfection!
41] The simple factor "light" is the bearer of all that exists, and the simple "word" as visibly expressed 
thought is the spiritual light, which moves everything and will lead everything back to me, from where it 
originated.
42] The light with its refractions of rays makes your colors vibrant, revitalizes your earth, helps to embellish
and make it bearable for you.
43] The light draws the juices up from the dark soil and leads each plant from the smallest moss plant to the 
largest tree to its destination.
44] Blue, white or red are the first beginnings of any plant before it rises from the dark earth; their blood or 
the flowing juice, globules like those of your blood, make up the main substance and move there in a 
regulated course.
45] They are not yet green in color, they rise pale from the ground, but as soon as they reach the light with 
its refraction, with its stimulating power, another life begins, the pale is colored, becomes green in all its 
variations, appropriate to the individuality (peculiarity) of the plant - everything lives, everything works, 
decomposes, forms and is decomposed again, reshaped and used again for another purpose.
46] New forces constantly rise up from the earth, the coarser and denser ones remain below according to 
their weight, the finer ones go on; the bud, the flower, and the fruit are formed from them (See the chapter 
“Life of the tree” in “Nature secrets”.
47] Light is always the stimulus. What the leaves absorb in color and then only reflect the green, they now 
return refined in the flower, in its various colors, by keeping the green for themselves in the flower and 
showing the other colors visibly to your eyes, thus informing the attentive observer of their inner workings.
128
48] In addition to the play of colors, light is still the main factor as a heat developer, which extracts the 
ethereal in the finest juices of the plants as sweet juice or fine fragrance, which prepares pleasant sensory 
experiences for animals and humans.
49] So you see how the light, working in every organism, helps with its development and its ultimate 
purpose. And how the material light pulls all this out of the dark soil of the clod of earth and brings it to the 
surface, where it then has to serve as a further base for animals and humans - likewise My word as divine 
light, which falling on the dark bottom of the heart, awakens there the dormant spiritual powers. And like the 
light with its seven colors, My seven qualities also stimulate it, which then - as with the leaf in the beginning 
as the main color reflecting back the green - show the virtue of firm willpower in the outer life, then, when 
all seven qualities are spiritually digested, keeping the willpower to themselves, holding the remaining 
qualities as the flower of life or crown of all spiritual aspirations towards ones neighbor, in order to
spiritually fulfil ones mission by exercising these divine qualities. As the flower turns into fruit, so the actual 
great noble spiritual man should grow as a result of the life of action.
50] Thus you see the diffusion of light also in the spiritual as the same leader and guide, and now many will 
understand what I meant when I said the following in the last word: "that if you were to know the light and 
its meaning fully in spiritual correspondence, it could give you some fruitful teaching”.
51] Here you still have together in small outlines the process of light as an effect of electricity and 
magnetism and in the end the spiritual light or the clear understanding of My words, which is to show you 
partly in comparisons, partly in images the great interaction, which prevails in My kingdom, where neither 
matter nor spirit can escape their influence, but everything connected together only constitutes one thing that 
makes up its universe or cosmos, but I call only the visible or invisible expression of My will and My
qualities - and therefore because it is also this and will last as long as I Myself, that is: infinite and eternal, as 
its Creator and your Father is, was and will be! Amen.
Chapter 30
The Eye (January 26, 1876)
01] Already since looking into Orion and later in the Word about "The Light" I have told you much about 
My creation, about the first factors (reasons) of them, which make them arise, transform them and urge them
to perpetual progression; in the last two words I explained to you the light with all its characteristics, effects 
and chemical processes, and so there was nothing left for me to do but to bring this little tool closer to your 
spiritual senses with which you can just measure My creation and comprehend miracles of the light - and this 
great apparatus enclosed in a small space is your eye, just as it is the mediating member in every living being 
which connects all with the nature living around them and its effects.
02] What a living being is without an eye, and what a human being would be without this organism, is only 
questioned by a person who has become blind, who indeed feels the beneficial effect of the warmth of his 
midday sun, but has to do without the sight of the surrounding nature, which is spread around him in its 
festive robe, for example, in spring or summer. 
03] None of you human beings can properly appreciate the value of an organ of his body or any other gift of 
grace from Me until he has lost it.
129
04] You can find this sentence proven every day when you see people sighing, especially in cases of illness, 
after their health has been restored, but what a gift of grace they have trampled underfoot beforehand, 
because they only knew then what it was worth when they no longer possessed it.
05] Therefore the sense of seeing, of hearing, of language, is only understood in its entirety when it is 
lacking in the soul. Only then does man learn to see what a great gift it is to be not only a member of the 
great chain of creation, but also to be able to see and hear everything, and then to communicate it to others.
06] When I will now describe the eye to you in this word, it is not said that it is the only tool with which you 
connect yourselves with My world, but it is only one of those factors (means), which is necessary for the 
spiritual progress of the human soul, for seeing alone is not enough if the advantage would be lacking to 
communicate what is seen to others. And so the next related organism of the eye is the gift of communication 
- language, which also is the eternally invigorating element of My creation, where it increases up to the 
sound, either reproduces or seeks to anticipate spiritually and thus is in contact next with the ear as a 
prerequisite; for one must first hear before one can speak, before one can communicate what one has heard, 
be it in speech, song or music.
07] Here again you have a Trinity, namely: seeing, hearing and speaking, which together constitute 
something, that is to say- the individuality of spiritual formation and through which the outside world is 
connected to the inside world, in that the first two communicate to the inside what is going on outside it, and 
the latter, the language, reproduces how the recorded has been understood and grasped inside.
08] That in individuals, where one or the other faculty (ability) was either lost or the deficiency was even 
brought into the world at birth, where one organ is weakly replaced by the other - these are individual cases, 
which only prove that the soul must have all three motors (impulses) in order to form itself, and only seeks to 
supplement what has been lost through the practice of the other.
09] Let us return for the time being to the eye whose title bears this word, so you see clearly that all miracles 
of My creation would be for nothing if the beings were not equipped with an organism (sensory tool) which 
gives them the possibility to perceive or see them - for what is the light without the eye? A half-finished 
work, where the beginning leads to no purpose.
10] So it must be assumed that I as logical creator, as soon as I wanted to create a world, as soon as I wanted 
to put beings on it who should recognize me, who love me, should understand me, and namely, since I 
Myself am invisible, only a spirit, they could draw the conclusion from My creations that a being, which 
could bring such worlds into being, besides His power also has to be a loving Father, who has arranged 
everything exactly for the sake of these creatures brought into being by Him, and I therefore also had to give 
My creatures the suitable organs with which they can perceive, comprehend and feel all this, or in a few 
words: When I created light, I also had to create the eye as the only receiving vessel of light, which - since 
the same can only attract and utilize the same - is and must also be composed of those elements which are the 
predominant elements in light. Furthermore, the eye had to be constructed in such a way that the light ray 
with its great speed, with which it penetrates it, not only does not harm it, but also leaves the soul time to 
supplement the images given to it by the eye to spiritual ideas of what it has seen.
11] But since the soul is connected to the eye by means of the brain through a nerve, and in the brain the 
spiritual faculties (abilities) of the soul must first undergo a spiritual process by means of the matter of the 
brain mass, which is slower than the light itself, precautions had to be taken in the eye to slow down the fast 
130
ray of light, for which purpose the various moistures which make up the inside of the eye serve as mediators 
and decomposers of it.
12] Behold, the blood, which is directed with great force by the pressure of the heart into all parts of the 
body down to the finest capillary vessels, this blood, as soon as it continues its course against the brain, must 
not penetrate with such haste, but must slow down its flow, so that the mediation between mind and matter, 
which takes place in all its parts (of the brain), takes place slowly; and because of this you will find that the 
great artery, as soon as it turns against the head, does not reach the brain there straight but in turns in order to 
weaken the flow of blood there and thus give the soul time to form the spiritual out of what is received 
through matter.
13] As it is described here for the brain, so it is in the eye with its contents, so with the bone structure of the 
organism in the ear, whereby the vibrations of the sound waves can also be shortened and modified into 
something.
14] It is the case in My Kingdom that I only need a few factors (means) to achieve great results. And so you 
see here again how I have provided, here by the bending of a pulsating artery, so that you may think, there by 
some watery moistures that you may see, that is: that with the former you can embrace the whole kingdom of 
thoughts and with the latter the great kingdom of My visible creation!
15] The penetration of the light rays by the substances which are in your eye and related to light, that is, 
magnetism and electricity, contained in phosphorus, would not be enough. I also had to make sure that the 
ray of light did not penetrate it as an undissolved, as white, but I had to add elements to these substances, 
which help to divide it, and that you could thus notice where the ray of light, striking solid objects, also
divided according to the same laws, reveals its colors according to the chemical and physical processes 
which I have shown you sufficiently in the preceding words.
16] Also this was not yet sufficient because after I wanted to make My great creation comprehensible to you 
living beings through such a small organ, it was natural that a device should be included in order to recreate
the image of the great on a small scale.
17 Therefore, the many rays of light from the objects had to be "collected" in large quantities in order to be 
"scattered", "diverging" again in the small eye, to reproduce a reduced image of the objects in front of you 
and outside of you.
18] For this purpose, I placed the crystal lens behind the pupil of your eye, which receives the rays, 
concentrates them, and then lets them separate again in the pigment of the retina in order to reproduce the 
image of the object seen on the black mirror-like velvet ground.
19] Your theory that when you see on the nerve-skin, the image appears upside-down and then reverses 
again by the reflection back from the eye and is then visible as straight, this theory is based on a great error;
because your opticians have probably found this result of reversing the image with a glass that is cut like the 
crystal lens, i.e. convex (raised, arched outwards) on both sides; but they have forgotten that the glass is 
lifeless and the refraction of the ray of light in it is therefore different, because everything lives in the eye, 
partly materially, partly spiritually, and the soul there works with the process of seeing quite differently than 
the opticians believe.
131
20] I just want to draw these gentlemen's attention to something. If their theory is true and they only want to 
limit the whole visual process to the mathematical lines of the circle, how will they construct an image that 
goes into the eye of a goat, a horse, oxen, etc. where the pupil is not round but an elongated square?
21] Of course, they do not care how or what the animals see, nor can they know, because the animals cannot 
tell them. However, they may be assured that the animals, despite the quadrangular pupil, see as well as 
humans and some still see far better and sharper than them.
22] They may be convinced that wherever I have given a living being a visual organ, it has been adapted to
it according to its needs. And so your scholars can notice, although they do not understand it, how even the 
mole still sees in the dark earth, that is, there must be light where they, the masters, can no longer perceive it; 
see how the bat still sees the little mosquitoes in the air late at night, see how the eagle soars at an incredible 
height - but sees the food creeping on the ground; to which of course completely different eyes belong than 
these, which I gave to man, which cannot bear the direct ray of the sun, while for example a fly and all that 
humming genus, whose head consists only of two spherical eyes, always bears the whole semicircle of the 
sky together with the strong shine of the sun calmly and still enjoys it without suffering damage.
23] In most inventions and discoveries, people have always drawn conclusions from the lifeless to the 
animate and spread the greatest errors with their own sciences, which then reveal many contradictions which 
they cannot explain.
24] Thus, for example, the cutting up corpses is a means of discovering the most serious defects in the 
human body, why one or the other had to pass into another life; to put it simply: the clock has stopped and 
the living power that made it go has escaped. Sometimes it can be the wheels, the spring or the oil that 
initially hindered the movement of the watch, but there are still many influences that took the energy away 
from the driving force of the watch, which forced it to stop. In man this is the spiritual principle of life, 
which in the end amounts to the two great factors which alone cause life in My creation, namely magnetism 
and electricity.
25] As long as these can flow into and out of the human body to the right extent, eliminate the decayed and 
help amalgamate (assimilate) the new, normal health, normal survival is possible. But as soon as this is 
destroyed and abolished, mostly by the mistakes of the people themselves, survival is no longer possible, and 
if the person is dead, the only effect that can be perceived in the dissected corpse is the destruction that the 
irregular inflow and outflow of these main elements have produced, but the actual life factor has escaped and 
with it the possibility of deciphering the reason or why.
26] So you see everywhere that "life," even if only visible, material life, is a completely different factor than
merely decomposing bodies and substances by chemical analysis. For take these analyzed components, mix 
them together, and I want to see if only the components of a human lung, for example, can be supplemented,
or whether you will be able to construct a similar grain of sand out of the smallest grain of sand, decomposed 
into its primitive elements. Something else will be the result of the decomposition; but it never will the 
decomposed!
27] So, My children, do you see how I have also put together in the eye substances and elements, such as in 
the pigment or the retina, in the glass or aquatic moisture, in the crystal lens, in the iris, in the cornea, all of 
which are of solar nature, so carry only light substances within themselves; but in the eye, spiritualized, they
are still subject to completely different processes, n that there are still completely different transformations of 
which you can be witnesses, but do not know how such things happen.
132
28] What is the process in material vision, how the soul absorbs what it has seen, is also in the spiritual 
relationship, where even the soul, often without wanting to, gives through the eye a sign what is going on
within. And here again you see another great factor appear, which gives you information about soul states, 
which proceed in the innermost of spiritual life and are reflected in the eye, without changing neither its 
substances nor its outer visible form.
29] And when I again ask your doctors, your opticians, what is this fluid that distinguishes the angry, the 
cunning, the clever or the loving eye, where each one is different and arises from another source and yet is 
always the same eye?!
30] Behold, gentlemen, this spiritual life, which penetrates the eye in such states of mind, is just again an 
imponderable (incalculable (soul vibration), which cannot be grasped, not measured, but can be felt by men 
when such a ray of spiritual light from the eye of the opponent strikes his own, without being able to explain 
to him where it comes from, what it does and how it often cannot be hidden even despite man's will.
31] It is precisely that factor of light which I called in the previous word "the spiritual potency" of light!
32] This potency nourishes, invigorates and completely fills the human soul, drives it forward; and when 
aberrations or disturbances occur in this life potency, the superfluous flows out, which is then predominant in 
the soul and through it in the whole body, which you can then perceive in the eye and also, if you wish - in 
language, at the sound of it. This radiating abundance encounters a negative element in the eye opposite it, 
repels it and becomes noticeable, where it is then able to produce the same thing gradually through this 
repulsion.
33] Here it is the spiritual soul-world that permeates, illuminates and controls matter. And if with noble 
movements of the heart, with enthusiasm for higher things, for more spiritual things, the urge still grows, it 
even happens then that the ordinary process of seeing is abolished and another arises for it, which then shows 
the astonished person a spirit world, which he may not have believed existed.
34] This is the spiritual view of a man who thus knows how to move himself to the border between life and 
death, where the spirit realm is closer to him than the earthly one.
35] A third reason of seeing is that which shows the spiritually educated or "reborn" man the whole great 
relationship of My creation, where the connections and the why are solved, the also-and-not-other, which is 
even spotted by the physical eye, can only be comprehended with the spiritual eye or its finer feeling.
36] This spiritual eye is the one which after death in the spirit realm will then clearly show everything to the 
one who sought to know Me through My works and words.
37] For there, as in the case of the whole human body, as well as its organism and eye, only the spiritual 
component has passed over into the hereafter, which, if it had already been cultivated (refined) in earthly life, 
would have been of some use there as well, which unfortunately is not so easy to achieve, since most people 
have a more than triple veil hanging before their eyes as Moses once had.
38] If men were to see spiritually, they would see a different world than the physical world before them, 
they would see everywhere the reason, the cause, but not the effect, the human eye would be able to perceive 
the division of light as well as the outflow of spiritual light from the eye.
39] Man, ever more understanding My creation, would ennoble himself, would already here raise himself to 
a level which would make it easier for him to progress up there; would be his own teacher, his own doctor; 
133
nothing would cause him to doubt, everywhere he would see clearly how I have organized everything and 
why I arranged it so.
40] His gaze would not wander over thousands of objects so meaninglessly, without thinking the slightest 
bit about them.
41] Intelligent, spiritual, his gaze would everywhere recognize only intelligence, cause and effect; would 
recognize the Master in the works and understand many a great Mystery, which he now often stands before 
in astonishment, because he does not want to shed his human self-conceit and even wants to set up the world 
according to his plans - while the world follows invariably larger spiritual laws, which are higher than the 
tiny child of an earth-man on this microscopic grain of sand, called earth.
42] The material understanding of the process of light, the clear comprehension of the process which takes 
place in seeing, the sure assessment of all that is visible, and the faithful trust in the existence of the invisible 
and spiritual only then emerges from all that is said, when man has become capable through his material 
organ, the eye, through the material process in his brain, can make his soul, together with the material 
images, together with the melodies and harmonies, can make the spiritual understandable, what is hidden 
behind matter, its carrier, its sustainer and its destroyer.
43] The result of outer life, as it penetrates through the eye and ear into the soul - is only a spiritual one, 
which leads higher up, which elevates the soul of man, ennobles, spiritualizes it, so that when the last hour of 
life on earth strikes, the leap is not a great one, but only a gentle transition that guides the soul there, where 
during its lifetime it lived and worked more than three-quarters of the time.
44] To achieve this, I am sending you words upon words; My aspiration is to make you understand how 
much spiritual is hidden in all that has been created, so that you are not to bear witnesses alone in this world 
to what a soul devoted to God is able to do, but so that you may be, as I clearly said, My children already 
here and not have to become so first in the other world.
45] I explained to you the eye in relation to the light, I could tell you just as much about the ear as the
receiving organ of sound and tones in relation to their effect on the soul.
46] I explained to you how these two organs are the connecting channels with which the soul receives 
impressions from outside, and language, the mouth with its speech and respiratory organs, is the tool 
whereby the digested material can be reproduced spiritually.
47] I described these organs to you as Trinity, I told you incidentally that even seeing is threefold, namely 
ordinary seeing, spiritual seeing and spiritually higher vision or seeing.
48] Everywhere "three" is the basic number, the number of Myself, the number of yourself, for you also 
consist of body, soul and spirit. (See "Secrets of Life", p. 36, 4th ed.).
49] Physically you see, you feel human emotion and spiritual through My spark of life everything is 
spiritualized, refined - beautified.
50] So understand after so many words, that it is an entirely different world which surrounds you than how it 
appears to the material eye and the human mind.
51] Let your understanding, your spiritual eye shine, penetrate matter to its soul and then transform 
everything into the spiritual future soul-human being, who was created in My physical and spiritual image -
134
where its outer form will radiate a divine beauty and a great spiritual ray of the purest consciousness from his 
gaze, into which eye already here a spiritualized ray of light falls, but in the hereafter the spiritual sun of My
wisdom and love will supplement everything that can be given to you here as a preconception, but not as 
reality.
52] So take this word "The Eye". Open your eyes wide so that this spiritual ray of light of My word reaches 
your spiritual understanding and also prove to you again in these lines that only a correct understanding of 
the visible can lead to the true appreciation of the invisible and spiritual! Amen.
Chapter 31
The Starry Sky (January 16, 1877)
01] When I again give you a word about this subject, it has actually no other purpose than to partly 
supplement what was said earlier, as well as a hint not to want to recognize Me and My words in scientific 
research and scholarly treatises, but in the starry sky which is nearest to you, the night sky, which you see 
spreading out over you every night in the clear air, to find God the Creator and Lord, who has always spoken 
to you and still daily does not silence His voice. 
02] If you want to study scientific books and find in them the laws of nature, the combinations of primordial 
substances, the chemical relationships, the crystallization process of minerals, the law of cell formation in 
plants, the construction of the animal world and of man, as far as it is possible for you humans, then this 
study is only a study of individuals or of the individual who, if he wants to, can also find the legislator 
behind the laws. Because who really seeks Me, he also finds Me everywhere; because it is enough that he 
wants to find Me!
03] These individual studies, even the study of astronomy, where it is not professional business, require 
much time, much patience and perseverance, in order not to drop everything in the midst of it.
04] Many things I have explained to you myself from all branches of natural science, explained and 
supplemented what is missing, shown you, if one wants to study them, how one should understand them, so 
that they result in spiritual results and not merely teach you the material mixtures and transformations, where 
even many a natural scientist places matter higher than the spiritual and sets the concept "God" entirely 
aside.
05] I have explained to you in religious matters of faith, in the Old and New Testaments how some passages 
should be understood, I have clearly proved to you that there is a great difference between reading and 
understanding what is read, that the limited mind meticulously clings to the word (letter) and only an 
enlightened soul can understand what, written more than a thousand years ago, will always remain the same
as truth.
06] From all sides and in all the books there is no shortage of words for you to lift up your spirit, to educate 
it, to seek higher things and also to grasp them, but in vain. for others it is too strenuous to defend themselves 
with all their might, and they only want to stay with what they have learnt or at most accept what they have 
learned (what they like). If he is shown a somewhat larger field of vision, he closes his eyes and ears, if 
numerical quantities in astronomy come before his eyes, he turns his head away, does not want to know 
135
anything, at most he wants to hear a few words from love, which move him at the moment, but perhaps not 
be practiced by him after all, and therefore only remain comfortably on paper.
07] Thus each and every one has his or her views, does not depend on them, hangs on the material, pursues 
the spiritual only incidentally, more to pass the time than to study seriously, in order to prepare for the 
journey to the hereafter, which will not cease after all.
08] Now, to return to our title word, I tell you that I chose it because the night sky is visible every day, and if 
someone doubts everything said, written and accomplished, he still cannot avoid asking himself the question 
when looking at this starry sky:
09] "What are these shining dots on the black horizon of the night?" The answer to this question was already 
given to the questioners at an early age in school, which was: "They are stars, that is, shining bodies like our 
sun!
10] Now, if this is accepted, a second question will arise, which will be: "Are these stars or suns attached to 
something up there, otherwise they would fall down?"
11] Popular astronomy has also taken care of this for the youth and has explained: "It is worlds, spherical 
spheres that move".
12] Next another question will arise, which is: "Are these stars or worlds far away from us?" And here, too, 
astronomy has, as much as possible, produced approximate numbers which, although no longer 
comprehensible to the human mind, casually give a value for distance.
13] Well, these questions are followed up by a few others, namely the first would be: "Since the stars are of 
no use to us inhabitants of this earth, what are they actually there for?" and the second question would be: 
"Since these great worlds are not fixed, who keeps them so freely floating in space?"
14] Many scholars and astronomers have answered the first of these questions, have also proved that these 
worlds systematically grouped orbit around each other, and have also said that similar to our small globe, 
these worlds will also be equipped with everything that can make their existence pleasant for the beings 
living there.
15] In further details they could not give you any information, because they do not know it themselves. And 
they did it very well; for it is impossible for man to invent anything beyond his own existence, which is not 
present in his own nature
16] The last question now: "Who has put these worlds in such a way that they do not fall down, that they 
move around each other in elliptical circles?"
17] To answer this question is now to be my business to tell you darkened spirits, who only listen to your 
desires and passions, in a few words, that it is a God who has created these sparkling stars or immeasurable 
worlds as a school for millions and millions of spirits, who all have to go through the path to perfection to 
become what I have voluntarily granted to you human children.
18] Up there in those immeasurable spaces these worlds float like drops of oil on a surface of water held by 
My omnipotence. None disturbs the other, all carry out their orbits in regular intervals, everywhere there is 
order, because everywhere only one law prevails, the law of attraction.
136
19] Each such solar world has its orbiting planets and comets, which are however not visible from here 
because of their small dimensions and too great distance of the stars themselves.
20] It took countless millions of years to develop such a system of worlds and just as many years to 
completely dissolve it again, so that it is not even noticed from the earth - whether it has just emerged or has 
long since passed.
21] Behold, all these infinite creations which shine like sparkling stars above your heads every night, these 
great worlds (would only be a little intelligence for higher things in your human soul) should not go
unnoticed by you men; for they alone without any preliminary study are capable of leading people first to the 
above mentioned questions and secondly to give them a more serious mood, which should end with the 
question: "What am I actually, a fragile instrument, with My feet clinging to an earth I do not know, and 
looking up longingly, and: What are you stars, you silent witnesses of so many thousands of generations, 
where so many had the same questions on their lips and received just as little a decisive answer as I did?"
22] Such thoughts should of course inspire every man when he sees the night sky in its Mysterious darkness 
before him, and yet how few men appreciate the starry sky with a glance, and how much less people think 
about it! While in all nature there is nothing that can make such a deep impression on a heart as this very 
starry sky in the silence of the night, where all the tumult of the world is at an end and even the greenflowering nature shows itself only in black outlines, and so gives man time and opportunity to allow certain 
suspicions free reign, which at such moments sneak up on the soul, which would like to have solved so many 
a question.
23] Unfortunately, it is generally the opposite. Most people, when they return home in the evening or late at 
night from worldly pleasures, trivial (shallow) conversations, sneak along their heads bowed towards the 
earth, reveling in what they have recently experienced – scarcely acknowledging the great universe above 
their heads - they are like the animals who cannot turn their heads upwards, but turn their eyes to the earth, 
which after a short time will be their last place of residence.
24] Who would dare to speak to such animal people of anything other than what they have just experienced, 
who would dare to tell them:
25] "Lift up your eyes a little above yourselves! Up there is a Mysterious world that will soon be your longer 
stay, where other conditions, other circumstances will determine you and your way of life; up there the selfconceit of so many will sink down into nothing. All dignities, treasures, riches, everything you must leave
behind here - poor you entered the world and poor you arrive in that world which you have not even looked 
at".
26] Animal-people like you are, I know well why you shy away from the sight of the starry sky - because it 
agitates your conscience, because certain feelings could awaken in you that you would like to suppress. You 
avoid all serious questions, avoid even the answers to them, because they do not coincide with your worldly 
ideas.
27] The kingdom of the dead and eternally living stands before you in a starlit night - you fear the former 
and do not believe in the latter. Therefore you flee away from this black, Mysterious veil of the future into a 
salon illuminated with candles and lamps, look there as one deceives the other by trying to impose on him a 
better opinion than he has of himself; indulge there in tables full of artificial food (and drinks) that will help 
you to get where you want to go as late as possible. Swarming through the nights in the exhilaration of 
137
sensual pleasures, until the sun has chased away the dark specter of the night, then stagger home to replace in 
your morning sleep what you have wasted up to there, and you will soon learn what it has done to you to 
completely ignore the irrefutable and to deceive no one more than yourself!
28] The starry sky is such a simple image of the great creation that it cannot be better given, for you see on 
the limited horizon, which arches over your head in hemispherical form, in small constellations, nebulae and 
comets, a kingdom before you which is infinite.
29] These great worlds, for which your imagination no longer has a number, appear to you as little stars, 
flickering and shining in the purest light.
30] You see them change their position, they rise and descend, that is, your earth in its axes and solar 
movement leads you in flight past these worlds.
31] You have no certainty of their "what are they?" "How great are they?" - "how are they arranged?" etc., 
All these questions will remain unanswered scientifically; where your mind says I don't know anything about 
it, and points you to your heart, where intuitive feelings must replace what astronomical calculation can no 
longer answer.
32] So let your heart feel what the starry sky involuntarily imposes on you. Deepen yourselves in these 
creative thoughts which may have destined the creator of this visible universe to create so many, so great and 
so glorious worlds!
33] Let the thought gain space which often overwhelms you when illusions and misfortunes follow you, 
when the world with all its material pleasures has closed itself to you, that perhaps somewhere else a better 
being, a quiet place to live after the day's efforts of life on earth, where nothing was constant and even the 
supposed happiness was of short duration.
34] Behold, the mind has no comfort for you, but the heart to which I have bestowed the gift - if it wills to 
soar far above the worldly, above matter; let it speak in comforting words! For - - - "heart" and "love" are 
synonymous. Let it be said to you that everything that the two testaments taught you in religious matters, My
teaching, My presence on earth, My death, My resurrection, that all this was not an empty delusion, let it be 
said to you that already in that time I spoke: "In My Father's house are many dwellings" - that already in that 
time I pointed to an eternal duration of all that was created. Let all this pass in front of your soul and the 
nightly starry sky will appear different to you - it will speak an understandable language. There you will see 
not only shining stars of different sizes, even large solar bodies not materially decorated, but dwellings for 
millions and millions of creatures, all of which describe their paths according to regulated laws, gradually 
developing step by step, admittedly not according to your tiny annual accounts, but for which purpose the 
development periods must also be expressed in other numerical values according to the scale of the whole 
world structure.
35] You will see there a great thought of creation being carried out, first of all the love for the foundation
and secondly a certain spiritual perfection as the highest goal; for just as your intuition will say that among 
these millions of worlds there must be a hierarchy, a higher or lower order, so also the beings living on them 
must be more or less spiritually perfected, where the rest of their lives is left to their own devices.
36] Where one rule, one law and the transition from one stage to the other happens only gently, then the 
Creator of this immense kingdom cannot be regarded otherwise than as a Father to His children. But where 
this relationship shines out from all creations, it is quite natural that when the sun sinks and the nightly starry 
138
sky shows itself to your eyes, you should feel no other language, no other feeling in your heart than the 
language of love, of gentle feeling, of fatherly love, whereby He tells you all: "Look around you! all this I 
created for you, I created for My children who are to give back to Me the Love which I have poured out into 
all creation!"
37] When this language finds its place in your hearts, then the starry sky is a celebration song of spiritual 
harmonies and every ray of light from a distant sun is a spiritual kiss from a world far away but still related 
to you. Then you will judge the nocturnal silence, the colorful flickering of millions of worlds differently, 
when the spiritual breath of creation gently comes to you, which encompasses everything, drives everything 
to perfection, to finally unite all tested spirits in one place where day and night, birth and death have ceased, 
everything material has disappeared, spiritual light, spiritual joys, namely eternal pleasures, will replace 
everything that the spirits, clothed in bodies or not, had to go through. 
38] Therefore I advise you, if you do not want to study, do not want to seek Me in My works on a small 
scale - at least do not despise the impression which the night sky adorned with stars makes on you. Do not 
believe, with a few words read from Me that you are already with Me - oh no! There is still a long way to go; 
for with words I will not move you to tears, nor are your promises enough for Me. 
39] I want action! I want to see in your behavior that My words have penetrated into the blood, that 
meekness, tolerance, especially against the lowly, against the servants who have driven away brutality – I 
want to see that you have a heart not only for yourselves but also for others!
40] As long as this gentle mood has not won room in your heart, all reading, all raving for My words is of 
no use to you. And it is because of this that I gave you this word so that perhaps in the evening or at night 
you might sometimes look up where an eternal world awaits you, but which you will not enter with song and 
sound, if you do not bring all the harmony in your hearts. For remember, there is measured according to 
other standards than you would like to weigh your words and deeds; there they ask for your spiritual value 
and not how many dictations you've read or transcribed. It would have been desirable if you had understood
at least one thing completely in order to progress spiritually; but unfortunately I cannot give you this 
testimony Myself!
41] Therefore, go out into night darkness! Look at the great universe, learn to look at it with spiritual eyes, 
compare your insignificance with it, and then sink together before the power of a Creator who besides this 
immensity only gives love and only wants to receive love again!
42] But if the result of such contemplation cannot appease your self-conceit, your pride, your commanding 
fury; if you cannot have the heart to treat all men as your brothers and sisters with equal love, then leave the 
reading of My words; for then a crust of dirty self-importance and material interests is drawn over your heart, 
which makes it impossible that better feelings, more human views can emerge in it.
43] Then no starry sky will help as a shining gospel, just as little as the written one, and it must be left to 
other circumstances to bring you to where in the end all must come. 
44] So, now you know what you have to do - - I have shown you the ways to Me. If you lack the strength to 
walk them, walk the ones that are yours, the success will show you where the right one would have been! 
Amen.
139
Chapter 32
The Screw (December 19, 1874)
01] Here, My children, I want to again reveal to you a great Law of My creation, from which you are to 
recognize how it is possible, through a single line like the "helix" known to you, to set a universe into 
motion, to push it to perfection by itself and thus, with the first impulse of an act of creation, to immediately 
establish its eternal existence.
02] See, everything that surrounds you, visible and invisible, has, be it in form, content or duration, its 
special purpose, to contribute to the existence of the whole!
03] Everything down to the last atom follows the great law of creation, which I have placed in everything: 
the origin, perfection and transformation, and only in this way was it possible to pronounce "becoming" 
once, since the more distant development is thereby conditioned by itself.
04] Now, among these great laws of creation, it is precisely the initial principles that are the most important, 
which serve as the basis for all creation. And of these principles, from which I have already explained and 
developed many things to you, the helical line that you have taken from My nature and incorporated into 
your practical life is one of the most important, because precisely it or the application of its form is a main 
factor of all that exists!
05] You all know the screw, you can see its application a thousand times over in many things. Your 
mathematicians have calculated their laws, explained their different forms to you individually, the mechanics 
have applied the moving force in spiral form on water and on land. In nature you find them everywhere, even 
in your bodies you know the peristaltic power of your intestines. Your own earth receives movement, food 
and warmth from the force flowing into it from the North Pole and exiting at the South Pole.
06] Everywhere on a small and large scale you would notice them if you had sharper or more spiritual eyes,
- and nevertheless the real reason for seeing the great importance of the screw and spiral line is still missing, 
to what extent it has established itself in the universe, has attained such great importance, and must have,
because without them nothing could exist, nothing could progress!
07] Now, to give you proof again, how important it is for Me to be understood by you through My words, I 
will prove to you again that in the most insignificant there is often far greater, deeper wisdom, than when you 
were astonished at My whole starry sky, admiring My greatness there, wanting to sink down into the dust 
before Me.
08] Still few of you have understood that in the infinite space, in the infinite creation there are only gentle, 
delicate beginnings of seemingly insignificant things, whose importance only a God but not a finite being 
can measure!
09] Look at it, the screw, its spiral turns, and try to discover something deeper, more spiritual out of it 
besides its mathematical laws and its construction - and we want to see whether your spirit can swing up 
from the material view of the curved line into the higher realm of the spiritual, which often hides the greatest 
in the smallest!
140
10] I know it in advance, your seeking is in vain, and that is why, with a short account of the light, I will 
pour out over your spirit in abundance so that you may again recognize how a loving Father is always 
striving, to draw you up to this, to which he created you, that is, to His children equal to Him.
11] So in order to speak to you understandably and comprehensibly, I must first draw your attention to the 
form of a spiral line, then to its purpose and finally to its spiritual correspondence; because only in this way it 
is possible to introduce you from the material into the spiritual. So listen!
12] If you look attentively at a screw or every spiral line, you will easily see that, as it is used differently in 
your use, its purpose is either to attach one object more firmly to the other or, as in your ships and 
mechanical apparatuses, to produce a propulsive movement.
13] Now look, here we have already approached the great reason of the general law of creation. So the screw 
or each spiral line has established the urge "forward" in its form, so you need it in your life.
14] The spiritual of this form is therefore according to the material, that is, "forward" is the actual idea.
Well, as usual another factor is connected with this driving or pushing forward in the material or actually 
arises from the more or less going forward, namely the generation of heat by the friction of the advancing 
object. Here you have a second factor of My great world creation, namely the development of the heat
substance from the movement!
15] Progressing further in our contemplation, the screw and spiral line shows that its locomotion is not a 
sudden, destructive, but a slow, steady and not retreating one, which in My creation must be taken into 
consideration, since I am not a friend of great expressions of power, but rather want to achieve everything 
with love and gentleness than with force! Well, up to here many things in my creation could be more 
plausible to you if you wanted to think about it, but I do not want to leave you halfway, and so we go on!
16] So we have discovered three characteristics of the helical line: advancement, deep penetration and never 
by force, only slowly. Well, now we want to look for these qualities in the natural realm of the visible for the 
time being, so we find them everywhere, with you in ordinary life and with Me in the great star complex.
17] Behold, all worlds, planets and comets move forward in the ether, but they do not move, as you 
generally believe, forward only around themselves and by another driving force - or around a central sun, 
that is in ellipse, no! Here I must say: they all move in spiral lines, they screw themselves into ether-space, 
awaken by this movement by friction - life and warmth in the ether, which they then communicate to beings 
living on them. It is not possible that a body, such as your earth for example, which through the flow of a 
magnetic (fluid) stream into its interior from the North Pole in helical motion, should not also have another 
movement in world space. The earth moves in a spiral, so do all the worlds, for this is the only way their 
progression is smooth and even.
18] If it were just a straight penetrating movement, then finally the speed would have to be either reduced or 
even cancelled by the resistance of the ether, which is not in My thoughts of creation.
19] Even the light that flies from one sun to the other at such a great speed, screws itself into the ether, and 
for that very reason the light is also a heat carrier, which manifests itself (heat) where the light strikes firm
objects.
20] You yourself in your practical life have often used this spiral movement to move around.
141
21] Look at your firearms, you have invented drawn guns and cannons, where the sphere is given the spiral
next to the propulsive flight movement, so that it can penetrate the air more easily than the object it has to 
overcome during its flight.
22] As for the development of heat, take a drill, try to make a hole in whatever object, and you will easily 
perceive how the drill warms up just by its rotation in spiral form.
23] The blood flows in your body, but its individual globules move forward like worms, because this 
movement causes them to develop warmth where they are driven by the thrust of the heart.
24] Your intestines have the peristaltic passage to remove the unusable from the body. However, this 
movement is not only for this reason, but in order to develop the parts even more gaseous and finer by 
developing the heat during friction, which are to be absorbed in this last course of the food.
25] This spiral movement is visible everywhere. Plants, trees, inside and out, twist or spiral upwards into the 
air, towards the light and the warmth, their roots twisting between stones and rocks and thus developing 
expressions of strength, which would be neither possible nor achievable by any other means.
26] The worm's life is known for its spiral movement, even in the oceans there are animals whose form is 
still far back and their organism suffers from heat generation, which for progression have a spiraling forward 
motion around themselves, in order to obtain the heat through friction, which the lifeblood circulating in 
them lacks.
27] So you see everywhere the helical movement as a principle of life, as a generator of movement, life and 
warmth.
28] This is how the worlds are created, formed and perfected on a large scale, so everything goes forward, 
slowly but surely, always towards its final purpose, and so you recognize very easily in the material how 
necessary and only possible this movement is, in order to preserve once created things forever, so that it 
achieves its purpose.
29] The spiritual of this movement or its spiritual counterpart lies clearly in the day, for as the screw turns, 
gradually "overcomes" all obstacles in order to penetrate forward, so in spiritual life the constant 
advancement from step to step is also a spiritually corresponding screw movement. "To turn around" means 
nothing else than to oppose an object standing before Me on all sides of Myself. Thus also spiritually every 
being confronts the tribulations of worldly material life with all its spiritual characteristics and passions. By 
moving the parts are abraded, polished, the heat, which is generated in the same way as love, calms the 
friction; slowly, as if between the hard and the soft, it moves forward, inexorably the life drill penetrates into 
the spiritual realm, always achieves a firmer position and gradually achieves a permanent foothold!
30] Thus in the great spiritual realm of the world, where the material only serves as a garment, this slowly 
advancing movement is the only possible one, by which the spirits can gradually achieve higher degrees of 
success!
31] The movement itself excites love, like warmth, and light, like wisdom, and so every striving spirit brings 
the result of the above mentioned factors: Life, spiritual life, where it only goes or where it slowly twists
itself in like a screw.
142
32] So, My children, this inconspicuous line is applied to you so often and so many times in your lives, 
precisely the form without which no star, no sun in the sky would shine, no heart would beat warmly and no 
life would ever express itself.
33] So this line is spiritually the great impulse that drives spirit to spirit, man to man and finally everything 
to me; because love - the main medium - chains souls to souls, unites them with one another, leads them 
closer to each other, and thus brings everything back to Me again, material and immaterial, in helical 
movement, from where it originated.
34] So see, My children, so much greatness lies in this insignificant screw form, there is so much depth, that 
although men found the mathematical laws of the spiral line, they could only discover the beginnings of a 
wisdom which originated far beyond the material in the infinite, its correspondence in the spiritual and its 
practical implementation in the material, as it suits your life on earth!
35] Learn from these words how minor the beginnings of My creation seem and what results they are able to 
achieve.
36] I gave you these words so that you may again recognize your Creator, but also your Father, who will 
never cease to introduce His children into the Mysteries of His Kingdom; because only when you understand 
the construction of My work or at least suspect it, only then are you capable of a love that can chain you 
firmly to me.
37] A child must fully understand and learn to recognize its father, it must be convinced in its innermost 
being of the father's greatness, mildness and love, and only then will it gladly fulfill his laws; for then they 
have ceased to be "laws" for it, the child then does everything out of love. Love however does not forbid 
anything, but grants everything, and for this very reason the child must know exactly what it means to be a 
child, so that it does not desire what is against love!
38] So you too are all moving forward, winding your way through the obscurities of this life, so that your 
moral side is also polished off from the rough; penetrate daily like a screw deeper into spiritual life, in order 
to move forward, until the bright Truth Light of My eternal Love shines behind the coffin lid, which you 
must break through. Only then will you understand why you encountered some many inhibiting things, so 
many unpleasant things in human earthly life, for there you will only see that without this always advancing 
movement like the screw, which leaves out nothing that it has grasped in its threads - without this slow but 
steady progress you would not have penetrated into that spiritual depth of My creation where love smiles at 
you from every atom and where from the first moment of a spiritual consciousness to the transition into the 
spirit realm the spiral spiritual and worldly movement was necessary to bring you forward, to develop life 
and warmth within you and so gently but surely to fulfil the purpose I put into these lines when I became the 
great "Let there be!" where everything, obeying this word, has begun its circling but advancing movement
and will never stop like the concurrent screw, always moving around Me as the center, sharing with Me in 
the same proximity of light and bliss, which is destined for all who, according to their purpose, have solved 
their task to My and their satisfaction! Amen.
143
Chapter 33
Micro- and Macro-Cosmos (July 20, 1875)
01] Behold, My dear children, with these two words science has enriched its collection of names, but 
without actually knowing what they wanted to say with these words, or in other words - without realizing
that if I accept infinity as existing, micro and macrocosm - of course in a certain limited sense -denote the 
same thing. However, the latter name "macro-cosmos" was previously used by astronomers before another 
researcher discovered a whole new world in a much smaller area using a microscope, in contrast to where the 
telescope found no limits in space.
02] Thus these words came into being without, however, the slightest thought of an infinite Creator of the 
universe, whereby these qualities of infinity on a large and small scale would have been founded by 
themselves.
03] When astronomers discover new worlds from star to star with ever-improving telescopes and recoil from 
their distances because they can no longer find the numbers for them, or because they no longer grasp these 
distances with the human mind; when from one inextricable nebula to another in the night sky new creations 
always emerge, where only the largest star complexes are visible, also all these planets and earths orbiting 
these suns and worlds will remain eternally inscrutable to the human eye, then they should have thought of 
the arranger of all this, because after their weak calculations, despite apparent disturbances, everything goes 
its regulated course. Only a few of them referred all discoveries in this field to Me, but titled the whole thing
only as "cosmos", and because the distance is without end, as "macrocosm", and left it at this expression, 
which almost every schoolboy now knows, but thinks just as little as the greatest stargazer does.
04] The second way to "infinity", which another researcher (Ehrenberg) and after him others followed, The 
first was to follow animal life as far as their microscopically-assisted eyesight would allow, and the second 
was to use this instrument to examine the cell tissues of plants and the components of the mineral kingdom.
05] Since they did not find the boundary here either, where animal life ends and where the components of 
the individual elements again showed their particles decomposing into other "life", they also called this 
whole world that had become visible and newly discovered to them "microcosm", where also the explorer 
has not yet met a landmark who has shown him the end of the world, but rather the end of his weak mind and 
explorer spirit by calling out to him: "This far and no further!" - just as astronomers could only guess from 
the distant constellations or shell globes that there is by no means an end there, but only a “stop”, where 
common sense can no longer grasp what a Creator has created according to His greatness, but not according 
to the physical size of a tiny human being.
06] These latter researchers also write whole books about the ever new and again new discoveries in this 
field, but even there you will get to read My Name little; they roam around only in matter, and just as 
materially as their search they also find nothing but matter again.
07] But since I do not want to have "My children" educated in this way, and even though scholars have made 
certain names for inexpressible things, you should actually know what is behind these names or how they are 
to be interpreted. That is why I just again took up the word to show you anew that although often already 
shown, but always new views of My creation can be gained if one wants to look attentively with spiritual 
eyes at even humanly invented words.
144
08] Everything that I have let you write through My servant until now has the very purpose of putting My
creation in the right light for you and for thousands of generations to come after you; for social conditions 
may change as they wish; no matter how different the forms of government may appear, two things will 
always exist: you inhabitants of the earth as well as others of larger worlds will always have a physical or 
material covering, depending on the circumstances, and your or each world, will also always consist of
matter that contains life in order to be able to fulfil its mission.
09] So as long as matter exists, as long as the process of creation, preservation and transformation proceeds 
in and on the worlds, that's how long micro and macro cosmos will remain, and quite naturally precisely 
because I as creator of the whole am infinite and therefore My creation must also be infinite.
10] When the human mind looks out into the wide spaces of the universe with the best telescopes, it will 
only discover new worlds - since matter, starting from the finest atom, always again forms matter - which 
(again contain everything in themselves), as, if I want to set an example that is obvious to you, any seed 
already contains in individual grain the infinite ability to produce from it the plant, from the plant the 
blossom and from the blossom again the seed. Like here, if you want to look at it carefully, there is not end 
in sight, just as in the macro-cosmos worlds of worlds are formed, where, of course, the scale of your short
lifetime cannot be taken into account.
11] So on a large scale and so on a small scale, where life must always be simpler, more limited, always to 
give rise to the thriving of all living things as a reason for a higher life, and in plant life, where everything 
which exists and visibly confronts the equipped eye of the human researcher, it must also be assumed with 
every discovery of a new cell tissue that this smallest cell again has its components, must have its organs, its 
own life, which drives it to develop the future, until finally to the ordinary human eye at a higher level can 
see the whole thing composed of millions of small tissues, be it plant, mineral or living being, shows how 
much it takes to create and maintain even an inconspicuous little plant or infusion animal!
12] If men were spiritually attentive observers of a single object in My creation, they would recognize the 
Creator with capital letters in every created thing or being and certainly would not so spiritually and 
carelessly often out of wantonness destroy things that are the greatest miracles for them as human beings.
13] Only, unfortunately man in general is like this, everything he sees daily, everything he sees growing, 
thriving and decaying like plants, it does not stimulate him to further research or to further reflection; he 
accepts it as something existing, uses it as he sees fit, without thinking in the least of the giver or donor of it.
Millions go through life thoughtlessly, are born, educated and die without ever having known what "to be 
born" means, how one should be educated and what actually "dying" means or is. Everyone believes - there 
is still time for this in the other world, if there is one at all? -!
14] That is why the lamentations and pleas of those who have passed over, when they begin to suspect there 
how they should have lived and unfortunately did not live; when they see how many means were available to 
them on earth and yet they did not want to use them, but in stupid arrogance and delusion of great power as 
men - they had completely forgotten the one who delivered them into the world out of love and never missed 
an opportunity to call to them with every beat:
15]"Remember, O man, that apart from you, there is a spiritual world in you and above you, which you 
cannot escape and which has created you according to spiritual laws and which will also judge you after 
death according to spiritual laws!" 
145
16] Therefore, one word follows another which I am giving you; because in everything and everywhere I 
seek to prove to you that you are not to live and be born alone for this world; but in everything I seek to 
enlighten you so that you can find the way to me which, precisely because you are surrounded materially and 
with material creations, can therefore only be found through matter alone - because in the material creation 
you are to find again the spiritual and in the spiritual My infinite, because only in this way you can morally 
move from step to step. The teaching alone is of no use to you if you do not imprint what you have read into 
your mind, mix it spiritually with yourselves, so that what an apostle once said will also come true in you: 
"No longer I, but Christ lives in me!" 
17] Likewise you too are not to use pious words, not always the expression "the Lord" in your mouths, but 
in your way of thinking and acting you should show that you cannot think otherwise than as your God, 
Creator and Father himself thinks, you should feel Him everywhere: in both the macro-cosmos and microcosmos. In the light of the last star that falls on your eye, you should recognize the same language of love,
which, equally and unchangeably in the smallest animal, has arranged everything so carefully and with love 
in such a way that this last infusion animal visible to you enjoys joy and bliss in its limited life just as much 
relatively to its organization as the most exalted angel who, in My nearness overlooks eons of worlds similar 
to Me with a glance. That is why I also chose these two words, so that you do not stop at the superficial 
expression, thoughtlessly overlooking miracles, which are always same everywhere, in the great world 
complexes or in the smallest cell tissue of a microscopic fiber of a plant, calling out to you: "Look at me, you 
human spirit, and do not dream away your short span of life! Everywhere the love of the Father smiles at 
you, who has already shown you many things, but has withheld many more, which only a born again man is 
able to see, who will then recognize that he does not need great scenes of nature, uplifting moments of great
enthusiasm and the nameless distances of world bodies in order to comprehend the love of a Creator, but that 
it is far closer to you and within you, where you will then also find the same laws, the same care everywhere, 
like a God, understand that o man, like a God! created! - as a Father established His worlds, where just in 
matter the highest spiritual - His love alone - contributes to the preservation of the created and to bring it to 
higher levels"!
18] So think, My children, or as you learn to think, to feel and act accordingly! So strive when limited 
science throws you names from dead languages, that even under these names there is often far more spiritual 
hidden than the one who used them for the first time suspects.
19] I allow many of your scholars and explorers to discover many things from My domain of nature, I allow 
many of the discoveries to be used for your social life, I even allow that these discoveries are used for 
deception and abuse instead of for the best of humanity!
20] But beside these "admissions" My primitive (simple) laws of nature remain standing, where the falsifier 
of them punishes himself, at least in his moral dignity, and the careless one, who is often tempted by avarice
and greed, must also atone for the consequences of his own passions in the physical world!
21] But under all these pros and cons I have nevertheless chosen My own way for Myself, where I have 
partly already for a long time been preparing the building blocks that will once be necessary to erect the great 
spiritual house (Rev 20,17, and in "The Second Coming of Christ"), where all falsification, all deception will 
have an end and My children will recognize their Father in all His works and in His already earlier given 
words will have the testimony that just as in matter the limit of a micro and macro-cosmos cannot be 
determined, so also in the spiritual conception of My words or in their practice also infinitely continuously 
the smallest often has the greatest consequences, or from the most inconspicuous causes the most farreaching effects can be achieved!
146
22] The gaze of an industrious researcher seeks in vain to see the last world, always forgetting that the last 
sun, which sends the ray to his eye through his telescope, shows him borrowed light, behind which the other 
greater sun will remain hidden from him.
23] And when he again penetrates into the smallest spaces, where a thousand magnifications always show 
him other forms, which precisely because they are still visible to the eye, must again consist of small vessels 
where" life" dwells", there is also in spiritual recognition the same endless sequence of steps, which is in the 
highest spirit, which a created can anticipate, does not reach the limit where I as center or endpoint again 
unite everything in Myself, simple and yet multifaceted representing the whole spiritual and material area in 
Me alone up to the simplest thought, which nevertheless had to precede in order to create an ether atom,
which also as soon as it is "atom" is still composed of smaller components, reaching to the limit of air-, gasor spirit-form, on the whole visualizing, also the world on a small scale, as the former presents the world on a 
large scale!
24] This is how the world works! So read and understand all the words which I have given you! – Do not be 
content with the fleeting impression; for this is not why you have received all these words, but, as I already 
said above, to understand spiritually as materially enveloped spirits, what is to mark you as My children! -
For where I and how I think, so must or should at least think all these, which I have created in My image.
25] But under My image is actually meant My spiritual self, which can only be reached when the shell of 
matter has become transparent, one only sees spiritual things everywhere, and where the gaze no longer 
reaches, it is nevertheless perceived cognizably.
26] Myself as God has no beginning and no end, neither is My creation, and your macro - and microcosmos, so called until now, are also infinite, where no human spirit will ever discover the limits of neither 
the beginning nor the end!
27] You should actually look proudly up into those immeasurable spaces, from where after thousands of 
years only a ray of light falls on your eye, that you are capable according to your organization to suspect
such things, or when you descend into the depths of the smallest, where a drop of water contains millions of 
wonders, but at the same time you should humbly look up to your Creator, who despite your physical 
minuteness put this spiritual spark into your heart, that you can partly grasp the greatness of infinity, and you 
should fall down before My omnipotence in love and devotion, which recognizes you as spiritual beings in 
its infinite mercy, instead of looking at you as insignificant beings, pulling you to His breast, educating you 
as His children and making you feel, who in its infinite mercy recognizes you as spiritual beings, instead of 
looking at you as insignificant beings, pulling you to His breast, educating you as His children and making 
you feel, that although a fatherly love is also on earth, this is by no means a weak shadow against those 
whom I, as almighty creator, feel towards you as well as towards the last worm in the dust, as I gradually 
lead all created beings closer to me, to unite everyone in a "kingdom of love", where matter has ceased and, 
forming spiritual things only, an eternal, constant bliss is to unite the Father with His children!
28] And this is the effort and purpose of all My words, all My guidance and all My creations which, starting 
from the micro-cosmos, even in the macro-cosmos will not yet have reached the end, but there again in 
similar circumstances a new creation will begin to count its beginnings, so that the word "infinity" in its 
entire meaning will be grasped and understood, felt and enjoyed by all! Amen.
147
Chapter 34 
First Creation of the Human Soul (November 11, 1872) 
01] My son! So many a questions you have asked Me and I as your Father have answered you with many or 
few words, depending on the greater explanation or argument your question required.
02] There are still new questions in your mind, as in your last letter addressed to My scribe. You say, among 
other things, that the answer to this question would especially reassure you before your departure from
earthly life! But here I have to ask you, if you now find out everything that you want to know, then what 
good is it to you? - does it help you to raise your moral condition? does it help you to know and understand 
Me and My teaching better? can this knowledge have an influence on your thinking and acting in relation to 
your neighbors? - Look, with all these questions that I have asked of you, you must answer Me with No.
03] What you want to know is a question to take a deeper look into My creation story, and if you want to 
look closely at it, there would be millions of questions left like the ones you put to me; for every living 
being, every plant, even the dead rock could provoke you to ask: What was the first process in every single 
creation? or what was first- the egg or the chicken? the seed or the plant? These are all questions which, if 
they would be faithfully and comprehensively answered by Me, would not bring you by a hair's breadth 
further on your spiritual level.
04] But in order to satisfy you in something, I will answer your questions as far as you, as a created being,
can have an insight into My creation. Well, listen then! That you ask Me at all in this relationship is a sign 
that the little I have given you about this is not comprehensible to you; for it is a slight suggestion of a 
creative act which was carried out not only in man, but in every being, only with the difference of the stage 
on which such a being was placed.
05] You know, the animals also have souls; so it would also be a question of how, when and from where on 
earth was every animal given its soul as a species in its creation or, as the Bible says in the Mosaic Creation 
Story, breathed in? Where did it come from, what was its origin?
06] To these and all similar questions I answer that in all created beings bound particles of the great fallen 
spirit were clothed; also that the great fallen spirit himself as an offshoot of Me was set free in the great
creation, where, like every finite whole, he possessed an internal and an external organization, along with a 
great part of My own divine life, which as a spark of Me raised him above all rough material things.
07] Particles were and are taken from his outside or ethereal covering every day for the material bodies as 
your garments, bound spirits were taken from him and used. - All created beings originate from his soul in 
regard to their spiritual life, and only his divine inheritance was left to him because it is precisely this which, 
like your conscience, continually urges him, inspires him to return to me.
08] Thus you see the Trinity, like father, son and spirit-matter, soul and divine spark, also consistently 
represented in him, just as every created being also consists of these three parts, which are again represented 
in a similar way in the material creation, in the spiritual heaven and in Myself.
09] Thus the origin of the soul, as with you in procreation, is always the same, where also you give 
something away from your spiritual being without feeling a lack. - Thus all living things were created in the 
whole material world, and when in the Mosaic History Creation man's creation was discussed in more detail, 
as in the work ("The Housekeeping of God" (Prehistory of Humanity), revealed through Jakob Lorber), 
148
which I once gave to My former scribe, so it has its reason in it because first of all man was the last link of 
creation on your earth, and secondly because you men are more interested in learning more about the origin 
of your own race.
10] How Eve was created from the inner and outer body of the first human being and why so and not 
otherwise, that lies simply in the fact that a companion, a life companion, was created for the first human, 
who of course had to be taken from the last finest material, which I wanted to create in My image. 
11] Thus the first woman arose, as with every mixing of the sexes one from the other, and this necessary 
process, which establishes its continuance with most living beings - only with the difference that for the 
creation of the first woman I adopted a method, which, materially speaking, carried out what also happened 
spiritually with the creation of millions of other creatures.
12] To further explain to you why so and not otherwise is incomprehensible in human terms, as little as if 
you were asking Me for an answer to the question: Who then created Me, or from where is the first seed
which brought forth My being?!
13] Your comprehension has its limits, beyond which you lack spiritual imagination to measure certain 
arrangements, space and time relations. You have an old proverb which I also want to remind you of, and 
that means: cobbler stick to your work! I want to remind you of this proverb, and if I nevertheless reach out 
to you sometimes the little finger, then do not demand also the hand; for it is too great, because in it the 
whole creation rests, where yourself and your earth must disappear like an infusion animal in the great ether.
14] You yourself consist of body, soul and spirit. Tell Me once which of these three are close enough to you 
because they make up your own self - which of these three do you understand, or can you really see through 
its construction, its organization? - See, My dear Son, to want to fathom things that do not contribute to real 
benefit or progress, these are useless musings that do not make you any better.
15] You have My Word that besides the soul there is still a divine spark inherent in you - seek to become
like this spark, because you are spiritually descended from Me, as I have proclaimed to you.
16] Seek to become worthy of this lineage, by thinking, speaking and acting as befits a child of God, leave 
the rest to Me! If one day you can see My creation with spiritual eyes in a lighter shell, then you will again 
have a further insight and satiation for your curiosity, but to want to completely understand Me and My
creation, let that rest, because it is not for finite beings - to understand and comprehend an infinite God and 
Creator, neither here - nor there! Amen.
Chapter 35
Essence of God; The Earthly Task of Man (March 1, 1872
01] My dear son! You have felt elevated by this title which I have given you, and perhaps for the first time
you have had to realize the power and spiritual meaning in a word when one wants to immerse oneself in it, 
as you have also proved by the second word "love", which you have long and broadly defined.
02] I knew what you were looking for a long time ago, so I managed the circumstances in such a way that 
finding it was made much easier for you.
149
03] You searched in all sciences, in all interpretations of My teaching left to mankind, but in your search 
you always lacked the master key, you sought with your intellect and forgot your heart!
04] In all sciences Myself has often confronted you, as it shines out from all creations, but always searching 
for something far away, you did not notice the first thing, you did not notice how everywhere the voice of 
love, the general love of God called out to you: "But avid explorer, do you not notice in your heart any 
question why all this was created this way and not differently? do you not realize that it is called into 
existence only out of love and for love to be awakened again?"
05] Look at the earth with all its wonders within, as far as you know them (See "Earth and Moon", Part 1 
"The Earth"), in the outward appearance of its surface, and you will be able to easily understand the 
aspiration of a merciful love, all the more so, when your gaze, sharpened spiritually, does not accept raw 
matter as the main thing, regards it only as a covering of another spiritual ladder, where then all apparent 
cruelties of living creatures as well as the destructive effects of elementary events following a spiritual higher 
course, are not regarded as evils, which are necessary to the detriment of individuals but are indispensable to 
their continued existence.
06] If you had studied geology in this way, while you had enriched your mind with knowledge, your heart 
would not have gone empty; everywhere you would have found the guiding thread of love, which leads 
everything in different forms, but always in the same way, towards its goal of completion.
07] And if you had carefully gone through what you had learned, you would have noticed that only the 
grossly raw visible is accessible to your senses, and the far greater and sublime is closed to the mind of a 
rational man and open only to the loving heart.
08] What did you learn from astronomy? Individual laws and movements of your own solar system and 
distances that are already incomprehensible to human concepts of your moon. But what is your solar system 
against the shell globes, of which this system is a part; what is this shell globe against the whole universe, in 
which material bodies as planets and suns circle continuously around larger ones? - just like a drop of water 
in your big ocean! And what is all this creation against those who, apart from the realm of the material, 
spiritually imagine an even higher and greater one from which all worlds have emerged and into which once, 
spiritualized, purified, all will return again!
09] Behold My Son! you can never grasp these magnitudes, these works of love of your God and Father,
with your mind, but with your heart you can comprehend completely.
10] With this idea of greatness and infinity your spark of God, placed in you by Me, must help you to swing 
up over the earthly, over the material to the spiritual. For there your mind is no longer sufficient, there the 
soul ability stops, if it does not learn, supported by My Spirit, to understand and grasp that only an eternal 
God could create eternal things and a finite being only becomes even more of what the name "God" denotes 
and what it means to be able to become "his child”!
11] You felt proud reading the word I addressed to you, by calling you: "My son!" - Yes, feel proud to stand 
on this rung of the ladder where you already see millions and millions of other transitions behind you and 
have only a few in front of you who, insofar as you eagerly desire, can easily make you feel the whole 
meaning, what it means to be called "My Son" and to be or to become such!
12] In order to get to know a Master, one must first understand the greatness of His works, must see clearly 
their reason, their why, for what noble or great motives He created them, and only then does admiration 
150
begin to have a spiritual result, then one realizes what it means to be a master like Him and a disciple of 
Him!
13] If you had studied all sciences in this way, the two main principles of Myself would have confronted 
you at every step in the micro- and macro-cosmos: love and the wisdom, which I created to awaken love and 
spiritualize and ennoble the physical created out of love by Me and to receive back again through My created 
beings.
14] It would have become clear to you how I created everything only, not for Me, but for all thinking and 
feeling creatures, where their thanks and praise is the only reward I could ask of them, an infinite from the 
finite!
15] Thus comprehend My world of the visible and the veil before your spiritual eyes will fall - you will 
easily decipher the spiritual reason and why everywhere, both in the slightest hum of an insect and in the 
noblest pure speech of a man inspired by God or in the depths of My Words themselves!
16] Then you will see delights in a little flower on the meadow and discover bliss in the expression of a 
word which can lead you infinitely as I Myself - from one joy to another, from one bliss to another; it is
enough that you understand how to immerse yourself in it. For not only the word "son" or "love" are so rich 
in high pleasures, no, every word; because every word comes from me, is spiritual product of a far higher 
world than the transient material one. With this Word I created the world, with this Word I animated it, with 
this Word I receive and guide and purify it until it will one day return as a spiritualized Word into My
Kingdom of the Spirit - and this one and great Word that expresses everything, says everything, this Word is 
"Love"! Grasp love in all its fullness, take it as man to your neighbor, as compassion for the creatures subject 
to you and grasp it as an expression and motivation why I, the great, infinite God, once descended to your 
dark earth and there performed the greatest act of love that a God could commit, and even greater depths will 
open up to you, which lie in this Word and in the Word "Son", when you consider that it is I - Love Himself 
– who has created all this, did all this, and put the spark in you - to fully understand what it wants to say - to 
be able to acquire the filiation of such a God and loving Father just for the easy price of love - and you will 
find enough material in My visible nature and in your own heart to do everything to make yourself worthy of 
this name! Amen
Chapter 36
The Time (August 7, 1872)
01] You also want this word to be explained - well, then write, since nothing more is wasted by you men 
than just time, that is to say, the time which is given to you as a life of trial.
02] See, you all do not know what time is, what it means and what value it has, otherwise you would all live 
differently than you really do. But to teach you nevertheless a concept of this word, which is worthy of a 
spiritual being as you men are to be, then I want to explain this concept to you as much as finite beings can 
grasp infinity.
03] So what is time? And how do you recognize that there really is a time? "Time is nothing more than a 
section of the thought of eternity, a small fragment of a great infinite whole!" You would not know what 
151
time is if you could not measure it by material things, where between coming and arising and disappearance 
and decay a period of time has passed which, as you do, can be measured or expressed in numbers.
04] Time can only be counted in the visible, in eternity, where space no longer has dimensions, where the 
measure of time has ceased, where concepts and ideas prevail that are not comprehensible to finite beings.
05] For this very reason a finite being can never comprehend Me, the timeless one; because even though 
eternal continuity is possible to think of, yet this is: to have never had a beginning, for created beings an 
absurdity, incomprehensible, unthinkable - and that is the difference between Me and all the spirit world. It is 
this word "time" which specifies My divinity more than anything else; for also space itself is not measurable
without time, not comprehensible.
06] So time is actually symbolically the most suitable expression for My greatness; for time as a concept has 
always existed and will always exist, whether one wants to measure it or not. So see, if you look at this great 
factor - time - from this side, it is he alone who can give you an idea of Me and a concept of My creation. In 
time periods the creation took place, one from the other, one after the other, and in time periods these worlds 
created by Me will develop, perfect themselves, and in periods of time they will pass away again and make 
way for new forms, new worlds, new creations. So time is the only thing by which My creation can be 
judged; because time as size, time as distance and time as duration of a created object indicates its value, its 
content and its sphere of activity. What there in the infinite eternal ether in periods of time My worlds 
perform, that is again the case on a small scale with every created thing and with its duration. Only time
gives the stone its strength, its duration, and with living beings it is again time that determines its life value.
07] So the term "time" cannot be eradicated from creation any more than I Myself. Without time there is no 
world, and without Me there is no time! - What is the period of human life from the cradle to the grave? It is 
nothing other than a section of infinity expressed only by numbers, which is visible in a recognizable, created 
being in its emergence, its development and its passing. Without these visible changes there would be no 
time to measure if you had not gained a timepiece by counting the change of days or the change between day 
and night.
08] Time has no beginning and has no end, it comes from infinity and flows back into it without a trace. 
Only visible creations testify to its coming and going, otherwise it would be immeasurable. So this time, 
which as a measure indicates its duration to every created thing, within which it must have been suitable to 
progress on the great step ladder to the spirit realm, this time is also the measure for spiritual beings, within 
which it is imposed on them to fulfil certain missions; for just as the great worlds and solar systems have 
their appropriate time of duration, so also all created beings have a certain number of periods of times, which 
determine their life until the next transformation.
09] The time for the great construction of the world is a certain time, for after its course other conditions 
occur which are now regulated by other worlds. This time, therefore, is measured, and it must be carried out 
during it, and what is necessary, which according to the plan of the whole is necessary for the preservation of 
the individual as well as the whole. What is now the case with the worlds, this also applies to every single 
creature, also to man; for he too, from birth to death, has a suitable period during which to complete his 
mission of his trial life!! But since man is a free being, and since he is also a complex of spiritual and 
material things, he alone is allowed to accomplish in the hereafter what he could not achieve here during his 
bodily earthly path of life; for man is a child of two worlds, the spiritual and the material. Precisely because 
of this relationship so many spaces in the ether are filled with immaturely deceased souls, who have to 
accomplish there what they could not here, otherwise a transition from the material world to the spiritual 
152
places of residence would be directly possible for them, which however cannot take place as the souls of 
men, unfortunately most of them, arrive immaturely in the other world.
10] But what does this demonstration shed light on? Look, it illuminates from this that men should use their 
life span, that is to say the time of their change on earth, as much as possible to make their spirit ready for the 
other world, so that they would be spared these intermediate realms. And that is why I give you this word 
about time so that you are to become aware how great the value of time is and that this wasted resource is 
eternally lost for you. You must take your lives far more seriously than before; you must attach far greater 
value to time than you have done so far; Let not the words like "pastime" come into your mouth, for beware, 
time drives you away, or: "kill time," for it is time that brings you death, not you of time! Time, decaying
into small parcels, each of these parts should have a value as a spiritual building block for future life, no 
matter how small, it alone should not be worthless. Time is the strictest calculator of your deeds, and all the 
good and the bad, the deliberate and the ill-considered, the hasty - in time it finds its treasurer. Since time
does not give back what has happened, you have to spend everything to see as little as possible written in 
these time registers what you would like to have back; for precisely because of its irretrievability it remains 
an eternal reproach, an eternal thorn - and thorns wound, prick. If it were not My Merciful Love, what would 
man have to do to blur the memory of many a deed that time persistently does not give back to him? - Only 
My Father's Hand can heal these wounds caused by the thorns of the past, the disapproved.
11] So use your time! Do not waste it, time is Me, time is the test given to you, the measure of life or 
change, which you, faithfully administering as a borrowed good, must one day give back to Me!! Time is the 
talent which I give to everyone at birth, do not bury it, but use this talent so that it throws you quite a lot and 
great interest in the hereafter. Remember, with everything you gain here, you shorten your wandering years
beyond in the Middle Kingdom, where progression and the timepiece are far more difficult! It is true, I have 
prepared great blessings for My children; but only those who can get into the rooms will enjoy them, where 
they are offered, and which only they can bear who are only well there. As long as slackness of passions still 
clings to you, you cannot get to where time is not a strict judge, but a sweet friend who leads you slowly 
forward between blessed pleasures and joys, and where you will have little or nothing to regret, confidently 
looking backwards.
12] Take these words to heart! These are the words of a Father who wants His children to enjoy what He has 
reserved for them and therefore admonishes you: The time to use the outflow of His divinity, not too much 
for material things, but for spiritual pleasures, for time passes away, also leads you to passing away and 
transformation. - Bless you, when this transformation will lead you into spaces where He who has already 
given you so much can also be felt and not, as in the Middle Kingdom, can only be guessed! The time is the 
measure of the duration of the worlds, but it is also the measure of your deeds and works, so use it as it is 
befitting spiritual and not material men who want to become like me; because for this purpose I have you this word. Amen!